Che Complete 
Book of 


A SIGNET MYSTIC #Q4352¢ 98¢ 9 


Hathryn Paulsen 


A modern practitioner s manual of magic, witchcraft 
and sorcery —with alltheancient recipes, spells and 
iIncantationsessential tothe Black Art 


SPELLS, CHARMS AND INCANTATIONS 


Did you ever wonder how you could free yourself FROM A LOVE SPELL? How 
tO CURE IMPOTENCE OR MAKE A WOMAN BARREN? How to RAISE A STORM OF 
CAUSE SLEEP? These and many other ancient spells are included in this 
fascinating book, along with the authentic ingredients, amulets and 
procedures that have been used with them for centuries. 


This is not a book for the idly curious. Some of the spells and recipes 
included may seem foolish, dangerous or disgusting. The knowledge here 
revealed has been forbidden through the ages, and has caused suffering and 
even death to thousands accused of being witches— as well as to their 
victims. Be warned! 


Other SIGNET Titles of Related Interest 


WITCHCRAFT AT SALEM by Chadwick Hansen. A bold new 
look at history, conventional wisdom— and above all, the 
uncanny extra-physical powers that human beings can wield 
over one another. “Compelling ideas... suggestive and 
important’—New York Times 


(#Y4235—$1.25) 


DIARY OF A WITCH by Sybil Leek. Dame Sybil Leek, the 
most famous white witch in the world tells of her lineage, 
psychic experiences, witchcraft apprenticeship and finally her 
initiation as a full-fledged witch in this fascinating journal. 


(#T3917—75¢) 


THE TAROT REVEALED A Modern Guide to Reading The 
Tarot Cards by Eden Gray. A fascinating and authoritative 
introduction to the ancient art of the Tarot cards. Special 
Feature: A special order blank is in the book so that you can 
order a set of the Tarot cards. 


(#N4078—$1.00) 


YOUR MYSTERIOUS POWERS OF ESP by Harold 
Sherman. Extraordinary cases involving extrasensory 
perception and ways to release your own mysterious powers of 
ESP are revealed. 


(#T4104—75¢) 


THE NEW AMERICAN LIBRARY, INC., P. 0. Box 2310, Grand Central Station, New 
York, New York 10017 


Please send me the SIGNET BOOKS | have checked above. | am enclosing 


(check or money order—no currency or C.O.D.’s). Please include the 


list price plus 10¢ a copy to cover mailing costs. (New York City residents add 6% Sales 
Tax. Other New York State residents add 3% plus any local sales or use taxes.) 


Name 
Address 
City State Zip Code 


Allow at least 3 weeks for delivery 


The Complete Book of MAGIC and 
WITCHCRAFT 


Kathryn Paulsen 


@ 


A SIGNET MYSTIC BOOK from 


NEW AMERICAN LIBRARY 
TIMES MIRROR 


Copyright © 1970 by Pentacle Press 
All rights reserved. 


REGISTERED TRADEMARK—MARCA REGISTRADA 


SIGNET TRADEMARK REG. U.S. PAT. OFF. AND FOREIGN COUNTRIES 
HECHO EN CHICAGO, U.S.A. 


Signet, Signet Classics, Mentor and Plume Books 
are published by The New American Library, Inc., 
1301 Avenue of the Americas, New York, New York 10019. 


First PRINTING, September, 1970 


PRINTED IN THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 


To Joanne and Trygve and Bella 
and Danny with Love 


CONTENTS 


Introduction 


The Roots of Magic 

Theories of Magic 

Magic Black, White, and Gray 
Preparation for Magic 

The Rites of Satanism and Witchcraft 
The Magic Ceremony 

Glossary of Magical Herbs, Stones, and Animals 
Magic Potions 

Spells, Charms, and Incantations 
Amulets and Talismans 

Magic Numbers, Words, and Symbols 


Appendices: 


Magic Fumes 

Government of the Hours 

Magic Names of Hours and Seasons 
Hierarchy of Demons 

Angels of the Winds and Elements 
Government of the Planets 


Bibliography 


_ 
en 


Introduction 


“The difference between magic and meditation methods,” wrote the 
English occultist Dion Fortune, “is the difference between drugs and diet— 
medicines will do swiftly what diet can only effect slowly, and in critical 
cases there is no time to wait for the slow processes of dietetics, so it must 
be either medicines or nothing.” 


We are in the midst of a magic revival. Whether it will be a Renaissance 
or the fad of a year or two probably depends upon the results of the magic 
medicine. 


It seems incredible that in an era of such sophistication and technological 
advancement, people should turn to the practice of magic and witchcraft, 
wearing amulets, performing spells, and concocting love potions. Perhaps 
their appeal lies in the desire to reassert a connection between one’s will 
and the world around him, a connection that is coming closer and closer to 
being severed completely. Perhaps the only hope for preserving the world is 
the direct application of men’s wills to the forces of nature and the objects 
of their desire, bypassing the powerful, destructive instruments that stand 
between—and that is magic. 


The goal of this book is to present basic materials and techniques of the 
Magic Art. It does not pretend to be all-inclusive or complete (no work on 
magic could), and it is drawn primarily from European magic traditions. 
Nor does it provide easy, step-by-step procedures assured of success. The 
practice of magic is difficult and time-consuming for all but the few natural 
magicians. There are no shortcuts, but when possible the procedures most 
easily mastered have been selected. Some of the spells and recipes included 
will seem foolish, dangerous, or disgusting; but study of them may 
contribute to understanding other more useful charms. Before undertaking 
the practice of magic, however, it is helpful to learn something of the 


history and philosophy of the art. For this purpose, there are chapters on 
history, theory, and morality. 


The Complete Book of MAGIC and 
WITCHCRAFT 


THE ROOTS OF MAGIC 


The practice of magic was begun centuries before the start of civilization, 
and ever since then magicians and witches have been trying to recapture the 
attitudes and emotions of the original creators of their art. The first magic 
was crude ritual, including dancing, chanting, striking objects, and 
pantomime, designed to influence nature by imitation: magic to keep away 
lightning and thunder; magic to prevent injury and death; magic to enable 
man to kill animals. Primitive men even engaged in ritual copulation during 
the mating seasons of animals to encourage the animals’ fertility. This 
magic was really science; men were experimenting with the only tools that 
they could imagine might influence their environment. 


Finding these actions ineffective, men came to believe that spirits or 
souls must be responsible for the thunder, the heat and cold, the movements 
of animals, and that in order to survive, a human being must propitiate 
them. These spirits were the first gods; the religion of the men who believed 
in them is called animism. Primitive magicscience was transformed into 
religion when man lost faith in his ability to determine his destiny and was 
forced to seek the help of gods. 


Ritual leaders or priests of the primitive worshippers wore animal 
headdresses and performed dances imitating the animal's motions and 
invoking his spirits. Assuming the identity of the god during the ritual, the 
priest became identified in the minds of the worshippers as the spirit itself. 
If he came to believe that the skin of the beast actually did transform him 
into the god, the priest became a magician. 


The priest-god-magician of the primitive animal cults is probably the 
original ancestor of the horned god of the witches. Most magical traditions 
involving animals—the belief in the shape-changing of witches, animal 
familiars, the use of animals in various charms and potions—derive from 


primitive animism and the priest who assumed the guise of the animal 
spirit. 


The rituals of primitive magic may actually have been more effective 
than their modern counterparts. As Penne-thorne Hughes points out in his 
study of witchcraft, early man possessed a kind of group-consciousness or 
ability to completely submerge himself in the shared needs and desires of 
the tribe and, as Hughes describes it, “psychic sensitivity,” closeness to and 
awareness of the forces of nature. It is this quality, lost in the earliest stages 
of civilization, that magic ceremonies through the ages have tried to 
recreate. Our early ancestors possessed in their concentrated and united 
wills a magic tool that the modern magician envies. 


Though civilization cost man much of his magical sensitivity, it did 
enable him to develop important magic tools, such as those of the Egyptians 
who made extensive use of magic words, amulets, and wax images. The 
final goal in their religion was the successful passage to the afterlife, and it 
was believed that demons would block the way unless the soul knew the 
secret words. The amulets were used especially in preparation of the dead 
soul for his journey, and wax images figured in religious ceremonies and 
the performance of black magic. Attempts were made to kill the Pharaoh 
with wax dolls. 


It is difficult to separate the magical element from the religion of ancient 
Egypt, but there was a distinction between the sacred magic of the Book of 
the Dead and the magic of love potions, images, and incantations, for which 
one would consult a lay sorcerer. The Egyptian priest, however, seems to 
have acted in the spirit of a magician. He virtually commanded his gods by 
means of Words of Power. Unlike the later medieval magicians, he was not 
compelled to seek the god’s favor with humble prayers. The words he 
possessed were truly magic; they gave him power over the gods themselves. 
The fame of the Egyptian sorcerers has lasted to the present, and new occult 
orders and practitioners of magic often pretend to trace the origins of their 
rituals to the magicians of the Nile. Although Egyptian magic has no 
legitimate modern descendents, such practices as the use of magic words 
and talismans deeply influenced Western magic. 


Meanwhile another great magic tradition was developing in 
Mesopotamia. Astrology probably originated in Mesopotamia during the 
third millennium b.c., and many types of divination were extensively 
practiced there. The religion of the ancient Akkadians and later of the 
Babylonians was sun worship, with the sun, the moon, and the five planets 
considered gods, whose heavenly movements affected events on earth 
below. This belief was the source not only of astrology but of the later 
magical theory of the macrocosm and microcosm (see theories of magic). 


Magic flourished in ancient Greece, and the region of Thessaly was 
especially notorious for its witches. The Greek witch was merely a 
sorceress or enchantress. Although she was usually a maleficia, or worker 
of black magic, she did not worship a witch-god or belong to a cult and is 
probably not the ancestress of the witch of the late Middle Ages. The 
classical witch was usually young, beautiful, and passionate. Greek and 
Roman literatures are filled with portraits of lovely, wild-eyed witches 
brewing potions and melting wax dolls to regain the affections of inconstant 
lovers. In Virgil’s Pharmaceutria, the enchantress roasts over a fire two 
images of her unfaithful lover, Daphnis, one of wax and one of clay. As the 
clay grows hard, Daphnis’ heart will harden toward his new love, and as the 
wax melts, his heart will melt with love for the sorceress. The Greek witch 
did resemble her later counterpart in her concern with sexual magic— 
causing and curing impotency, fertility, and love. In many cultures, 
preoccupation with sex is the primary element that distinguishes female 
magicians from male. 


Although little is known of the Greek mysteries, they have fascinated and 
inspired generations of magicians. The mysteries were secret religious cults, 
usually for the worship of one god or for the celebration of a particular 
legend. Some, such as those of Eleusina, had large memberships and 
performed many of their rituals in public. Others maintained complete 
secrecy and were composed of select groups of initiates, who underwent 
rigorous testing and training. The rites, which varied from the orgiastic to 
the sedate and ascetic, included dancing, music, drama, processions, ritual 
meals, and sometimes the eating of poisonous or narcotic plants. Some 
mysteries undoubtedly included magical practices, but almost nothing is 


known of them. It is possible that the mysteries are one source of the rites 
of a later witch-cult, but such a relationship cannot be demonstrated. 


The Jewish mystical doctrine of Cabala is another source of magic lore. It 
was not originally intended to be put to such purposes and has indeed been 
misused. A main source of power in cabalistic magic is the twenty-two 
letters of the Hebrew alphabet, which symbolize the powers used in the 
creation of the universe. Christians also believed that the Hebrew language 
was the original speech given by God and therefore contained great magical 
force. In particular, the names of God, such as the Tetragrammaton, the 
four-letter unpronounceable name, were believed to confer great power 
upon him who could correctly pronounce them. Words and phrases obtained 
by techniques for finding hidden meanings in the Scriptures were used 
extensively in ceremonial magic. 


Cabalistic ritual was one of the main components of the ceremonial 
magic that was developed in the later Middle Ages. Ceremonies of the 
Christian Church also contributed to the peculiar character of the magic. 
Nearly all ceremonial magic was accomplished by transactions with angels 
or demons or both. However, the careful magician rarely sold his soul to the 
Devil and believed that prayer to God was necessary. As the English 
occultist A. E. Waite said, “The first impossibility required of the adept in 
Black Magic is therefore that he ... should put all his hopes in God before 
he makes pact with Satan.” In this sense the medieval sorcerer was less a 
magician than the Egyptian priest, who could command his gods. 


The practice of ceremonial magic was formal, difficult, and time- 
consuming, and nearly impossible for those with little learning or 
knowledge of Christian ritual. It was therefore considered a pursuit of 
learned men, and many scholars, such as Roger Bacon and Thomas 
Aquinas, who probably never drew a magic circle, were reputed magicians. 
In the later Middle Ages, anyone with more than average knowledge might 
be thought to have gained it from magic and dealings with demons. Several 
black magic handbooks, called grimoires, were attributed to Popes; even 
they were not above suspicion. 


While magicians practicing ceremonial magic were fasting, consecrating 
their weapons, praying, and invoking demons within the privacy of the 


magic circle, sorcerers of a much different kind were gathering herbs, 
casting the evil eye, and worshipping the Devil. The latter were called 
witches. Although they occupy a firm place in popular superstition, we 
know little of them or their practices. 


Some scholars define witchcraft strictly as the practice of the Christian 
heresy described by the witch-hunters, and claim that it never existed. Many 
modern theorists consider witchcraft the survival of a pagan religion. They 
represent the witch as a worshipper of the old gods, descendants of the 
paleolithic animal gods, who were repressed by the Christian Church. They 
did not worship the Devil; rather, their gods became for the new Church the 
archetype of the Devil. Representations of the Devil bore a strong 
resemblance to Pan and probably to the horned god of Gaul, Cernunnos, 
who may have been a god of the witch-cult. The Sabbat is represented as a 
fertility rite, descended from primitive imitation of the mating of animals. 


Unfortunately, nearly all our information on the nature of witchcraft 
comes from the records of the witch trials. Since most confessions were 
obtained by brutal torture with leading questions from the judges, it is 
difficult to discover what fact they may contain amid the fictions produced 
by desperate imaginations. The confessions do resemble each other to a 
remarkable degree, but this resemblance may indicate only that witch- 
beliefs were widespread. It is impossible to prove that a particular 
confession is that of a real witch. For instance, many scholars of witchcraft 
are inclined to accept confessions of members of the coven which plotted 
against the life of James VI of Scotland as those of real witches. One of 
them, John Fian, a schoolteacher, confessed that he attempted to cast a love 
spell on the sister of one of his pupils and for that purpose asked the boy to 
bring him three of the sister’s pubic hairs. The boy instead brought three 
hairs from a virgin heifer, which, after the spell was cast, was so smitten 
with Fian that she entered his class and followed him around. This incident 
is almost identical to one described in the Metamorphosis of the Roman 
writer Apuleius. Although it is possible that Fian actually performed the 
spell, it seems more likely that he recalled books he had read, and perhaps 
taught his pupils, for anecdotes to satisfy his credulous torturers. 


If there were cults whose members engaged in the practices attributed to 
witches, they probably developed from many different sources. They were 
not simply survivals of pagan religion, but did contain some remnants of 
pagan practices; the worship of a horned god, dancing, and ritual 
intercourse. 


The first trials of the witch-hunting period occurred in France in the 
thirteenth century, and the epidemic quickly spread to the rest of Europe, 
reaching grim proportions by the late fifteenth century, after the Bull 
against witchcraft of Pope Innocent VIII in 1484. Five years later, two 
Dominicans, Heinrich Kramer and Jacob Sprenger, wrote the major classic 
of witch-hunting, Malleus Maleficarum, which established the methods that 
were to be used by the Church in examinations of witches. The book 
prescribed the use of brutal torture in all cases and conviction upon the 
slightest shred of evidence or accusation. The witch panic reached England 
about a century later. In 1563, during the reign of Elizabeth I, new laws 
were passed against witchcraft, but not until 1603, in the reign of James 1 
(himself an intended victim of a witch plot and author of works on witch- 
finding), was it made a capital offense. The British witch scare was 
somewhat milder than the European. Torture was not permitted, although 
some of the tests for witchcraft, such as pricking and ducking, were mild 
forms of torture; nor were witches burned. In Scotland, however, where 
both torture and burning were employed, the panic rivaled that of Europe. 
During the seventeenth century there were a few sporadic cases of 
witchcraft in the American colonies, but aside from those of Salem in 1692, 
which were instigated by the accusations of disturbed, hysterical young 
girls, none attained the notoriety of the European trials. The panic gradually 
lessened in France during the seventeenth century and was finally ended in 
1672 by a decree of Louis XIV. The last conviction in England occurred in 
1712, and the capital penalty for witchcraft was abolished in 1736. In 
Germany an execution took place as late as 1793. 


The witch scares were undoubtedly related to the social turbulence of the 
time and the upheaval in the Church caused by the Reformation. The panic 
was especially hideous in the areas where the contest between Protestantism 
and Catholicism was most bitter, as for example in Germany and Scotland. 
Accusations of witchcraft became an effective weapon which neither side 


hesitated to use. The comparative absence of direct conflict between 
Protestant and Catholic in Ireland may be one reason that that country had 
few cases of witchcraft. The fact that little literature of witchcraft reached 
Ireland tends to confirm the belief that the witch cult was largely of literary 
origin. Whether or not the literature of witchcraft resulted from actual cults, 
it seems highly likely that it did cause the development of new cults. If a 
book is written purporting to describe a nonexistent religion, it will 
probably find adherents. There may have been no organized witches at the 
beginning of the panic; but if any escaped persecution, there were 
undoubtedly some at the end. 


In the skepticism of the eighteenth century, the Devil and his witch 
disciples were objects of amusement rather than fear. “It was not witchcraft 
that died, but the Devil,” wrote Philip Sergeant. However, there was an 
increased interest in self-conscious Satanism—that is, in the worship of 
Satan, not as a horned, pagan god, but as the evil power recognized by 
Christianity. In France especially, the Black Mass became a popular form of 
amusement for young men in serious pursuit of decadence. Celebrants 
probably included Catholics, who believed in the White Mass as well as the 
Black, and were attempting to show their disdain for the Church. 


In the late nineteenth century, a revival of interest in magic and the occult 
took place in England and France. An important figure in this movement 
was Alphonse Constant, known as Eliphas Levi, noted for such works, 
primarily on ceremonial magic, as Le Dogme et Rituel de Haute Magie. The 
Order of the Golden Dawn was the best known occult organization of this 
period, perhaps because of its illustrious membership, which included 
William Butler Yeats, Algernon Blackwood, and Arthur Machen. One of 
the most flamboyant modem magicians, Aleister Crowley, joined the 
Golden Dawn in 1898 and fought a magic battle with Samuel Mathers for 
its leadership. Crowley was ousted from the Golden Dawn and founded his 
own less prominent order, the A A, or Argeninum Astrum; but the Golden 
Dawn had become divided and never regained its former popularity. 


The ceremonies of these and similar orders were strongly influenced by 
cabalism and spiritualism. Their spells were usually directed toward vague, 
psychic goals, and the use of magic for more worldly purposes was 


discouraged. In some orders, such as Crowley’s, however, the use of blood 
and sex in ritual was considered helpful for obtaining the necessary energy 
to successfully work magic or achieve mystical insight. The results of such 
practices were sometimes unfortunate. One of Crowley’s disciples died 
apparently from drinking the blood of a black cat. 


Recently covens have been organized throughout the United States and 
England by those who embrace “the old religion” of witchcraft. Although 
their rites are disappointingly similar to those of an ordinary secret club or 
lodge, others are attempting to revive the darker practices of witches. A few 
Satanists worship their deity, as a rule more publicly and less criminally 
than their ancestors. But there seems to be an absence of the organized 
practice of magic under the leadership of such imaginative magicians as 
Levi and Crowley. 


THEORIES OF MAGIC 


There are two kinds of magic theories: those of magicians about how or 
why magic works and those about magicians and how they think magic 
works. Most who hold theories of the latter type are anthropologists 
interested in the development of magic by early man. 


According to the Scottish anthropologist James Frazer, the magic of 
primitive man, which he calls sympathetic magic, is based on two major 
principles: homeopathy or imitation—that like produces like; and contagion 
—things which have once been in contact continue to be magically related. 
In other words, one who pricks a wax doll believes that the injury to the 
doll will produce a similar injury in the intended victim. If he incorporates 
some of the victim’s hair, clothing, or nails into the image, he is using the 
principles of contagion, strengthening the work by adding some of the 
victim’s vital force. Nearly all magic seems to be partly homeopathic. 
Contagious magic, on the other hand, must be combined with some other 
element, such as incantation, magic words, or homeopathic actions. 


To these principles a third one might be added: that of antipathy, as the 
sixteenth-century occultist Cornelius Agrippa calls it, or banishment. That 
is, certain things are magically incompatible because extremely unlike each 
other, and the one that is stronger will banish or neutralize the effects of the 
other. Antipathy, at least in its later development, often operates by 
convention rather than by any apparent opposition between two things. For 
instance, an emerald is used in a charm to find out whether one’s spouse has 
been unfaithful, although there is no obvious reason why the emerald, rather 
than another stone, should suggest adultery. 


In Totem and Taboo, Sigmund Freud describes the psychological basis 
for the development of sympathetic magic as the mistaking of mental events 
for real ones, the assumption that the behavior of the world around 


primitive man resembled his own thoughts. This assumption was, of course, 
soon disproved by practice. 


Critics of Frazer have since pointed out that much so-called sympathetic 
magic is merely intended to symbolize the desired end. Primitive men may 
have used magic, not because they believed it would directly bring about 
desired results, but to tell the spirits what they wanted to happen. Like their 
modern descendants, early men may also have been aware that the efficacy 
of the magic ceremony depends not so much upon the specific actions 
performed as upon the intensity of the energy that goes into it. 


Of the theories of magic developed by magicians themselves one of the 
most important is that of the macrocosm and microcosm, which resulted 
from the astrological theories of the Babylonians. According to the theory, 
each man and each organism is a miniature universe, and the universe may 
be understood as a human being on a grand scale. Refinements of the theory 
included development of various systems of magical correspondences of 
herbs, stones, and other objects to the planets, such as the Doctrine of 
Signatures. The planets were believed to mark certain things as their own: 
and the character of a particular planet would determine the appearances 
and uses of its plants and stones. For instance, most golden or yellow herbs, 
especially those that turn toward the sun, are of solary influence and are 
used in charms to procure fame and wealth and in medicines to strengthen 
the heart. Paracelsus, a sixteenth-century alchemist and exponent of the 
Doctrine of Signatures, wrote: “Everything external in nature points to 
something external.” That is, the virtues of plants, stones, and other 
substances are magically revealed in their shape, color, and texture, if one 
only learns how to interpret them correctly. 


Even today the practice of natural magic is based primarily on the 
Doctrine of Signatures. 


Many practitioners of herbal or natural magic held strictly aloof from 
more ceremonial or formal magic, believing it diabolical. It was all right to 
attempt to read the will of the heavens as written in natural objects, but to 
impose one’s own will on nature was another matter. For most modern 
magicians, however, the will is at the center of magic theory. Having 
learned that the universe does not resemble his will, the magician attempts 


to impose his will upon it. According to a typical definition by the English 
magician Aleister Crowley: “Magick [sic] is the Science and Art of causing 
Change to occur in Conformity with Will.” And since all magic, herbal or 
ceremonial, is considered solely a method of theoretical development, it is 
somewhat surprising that magicians continue to follow, often slavishly, the 
old rituals. Moderns generally regard the ancient lore as true magic 
wisdom; however, what was considered literally true by the ancient is 
symbolically true for the modern. The ancient names for God have been 
transformed into names for vague natural forces or even further into names 
for attributes of man’s will or psyche. 


1 See James Frazer, The Golden Bough, Vol. 1, London, 1890. 


MAGIC BLACK, WHITE, AND GRAY 


Thinkst thou, oh man! to attain power to gratify thy lusts, to enrich thy 
coffers, to build houses, to raise thyself to the pinnacle of human 
admiration: If these are the hopes and desires, thou has reason to 
lament thy being born: all such desires are immediately from the 
Devil. (Francis Barrett, The Magus, London, 1801). 


One may feel a revulsion toward magic, not because he believes all 
magic is black or evil or that it is foolish, unscientific, and ineffective, but 
because it seems so primitive, so deeply rooted in impulses that modern, 
civilized man has supposedly overcome. Yes, magic is primitive and 
uncivilized and irrational. Whether it is necessarily harmful and destructive 
is another question—one that can be resolved only by practice. 


The knowledge of black magic is as old as the knowledge of good and 
evil; and as long as magic has been self-consciously practiced, distinction 
has been made between the black and white varieties. At first the distinction 
was simple: white magic was either religious magic, performed with the 
sanction of the gods, or it was magic that did not hurt anyone else. It 
included such practices as magic healing, divination, use of love charms 
and potions, and casting spells for finding buried treasure. Black magic was 
that which injured another, and was usually illegal, the punishment varying 
with the degree of harm intended. In ancient times, the white magician, who 
might be a priest practicing magic on the side, was generally respected and 
admired. Later, however, the practitioners of white magic exclusively were 
often considered witches or black magicians. During the period of the witch 
trials, the most benevolent wise woman or herbalist might be accused of 
witchcraft by customers for whom her magic cures did not work. 


Under Christianity, black magic came to be defined in terms of 
association with the Devil rather than the degree of evil in the magic acts 


themselves. With the increasing incredulity of the Church toward the 
possibility of successfully working black magic, punishment became more 
and more savage. During the witch trials, the accused were treated as 
servants of the Devil, who must be prevented from having any chance to 
use their powers. Magicians were considered somewhat less dangerous, 
since the witchhunters believed that the effectiveness of magic came from 
making pact with the Devil, not from merely working spells. However, it 
was thought unlikely that one who attained magic powers had got them 
from any but Satanic sources and could use them for good. 


It is easy to believe in black magic as the witch-hunters did, but often 
quite difficult to believe in the possibility of white magic. Magic can be 
white only to the degree that a human being can be good, and examples of 
pure white magic are therefore hard to find. Many magical practices that 
traditionally have been considered good, such as the finding of buried 
treasure and the use of love charms, are of mixed value. One must consider 
not only whether the spell actively injures another but also what effect it has 
on the magician's character. Will obtaining the treasure make him wiser or 
stronger? Might the woman he desires to win by magic be happier with 
someone else? 


Although the categories of black and white no longer seem especially 
useful for describing the practice of magic, the would-be magician should 
still consider carefully the nature of the forces he is evoking and what effect 
they will have upon him. Dion Fortune’s description of black and white 
magic might be helpful: “White Magic seeks to reach backwards into an 
outgrown phase of evolution and release forces which have long since been 
equilibriated into a static force. ... In Black Occultism a breaking down of 
organized form into lower types of force takes place.”4 


1 Dion Fortune, The Training and Work of an Initiate, London, 1955. 


PREPARATION FOR MAGIC 


Success in the performance of magic is affected not only by the 
momentary strength of the magician’s will but by the quality of the life he 
leads. Writers on magic are in general agreement that his life should be 
somewhat withdrawn from worldly involvement, disciplined but 
comfortable, and above all balanced. According to the French occultist 
Alphonse Constant (pseudonym: Eliphas Levi) “the sight of hideous objects 
and of deformed persons must be avoided, as far as possible; the Magus 
should not eat with those whom he does not esteem, and must live in the 
most uniform and methodical manner. He should have the most exalted 
self-respect and should consider himself a dethroned sovereign, who 
consents to existence that he may recover his crown. Being amiable and 
well-behaved towards everyone, he should never permit himself to be 
absorbed in social relations and should withdraw from circles where he 
does not possess some initiative.”+ 


But perhaps the most important requirement for the successful working 
of magic is, as Cornelius Agrippa said, that one “know the virtue, measure, 
order, and degree of his own soul, in relation to the Power of the 
Universe.”* A magician who does not know himself well is likely to work 
magic that will not be good for him and may endanger the most vital part of 
his magic equipment—his will. The practice of magic necessitates control 
over oneself—the ability to concentrate and discipline the will and to direct 
it toward the accomplishment of one’s desires. A magician need not have 
superhuman self-knowledge and control. He must merely bring about a 
successful combination of intense desire and concentration with an 
appropriate object. A magician may love unwisely but intensely, briefly and 
superficially but with his whole being, and by means of magic win a love he 
later does not want. The practice of magic is a method for intensifying and 
concentrating the passions. It may provide release, alleviation of pain, 


expression of joy; or it may strengthen destructive passions, make them less 
controllable and, if not fulfilled, less bearable. 


There is danger in the practice of magic by someone with limited self- 
control and understanding. Magic can backfire, especially when the object 
of the spell is stronger than he who cast it. The worker of magic by a wax 
image may feel the pain of the needle himself; he who casts a love spell 
may find his passion more hopeless and consuming than before. 


Many magicians believe that magic involves the knowledge of and power 
over good and evil, that there is no white magic without black. The 
magician who cannot destroy cannot create. In order to use his power for 
good, he must first subdue his enemies. It might be said that the real object 
of the magician’s art is himself. The harm or help he works to others is 
incidental. If he casts a spell to make a rival in love unsuccessful, the failure 
is also his own. The magician absorbs all possible consequences of his 
action; whether or not his spell will work depends upon whether he is 
powerful enough to take these consequences, powerful enough to absorb the 
failure or injury without succumbing to it. He must possess a magical 
immunity. 


The quality that most distinguishes the great from the ordinary worker of 
magic is imagination. Throughout history magic has been tied to tradition. 
Magicians and witches worked either spells that had been handed down 
from their ancestors or what they thought would approximate lost magic 
rituals. The grimoires are falsely ascribed to such ancient personages as 
King Solomon, not to intentionally mislead, but because the authors 
believed King Solomon’s magic to be the best. It is true that ancient or 
foreign words and incantations often inspire an awe and enthusiasm that 
make them especially effective. It is usually impossible, however, for a 
modern magician to fully understand the meaning of such a magic phrase, 
or to feel about it the way the ancient sorcerer did. And a phrase that has 
undergone numerous changes from age to age can usually withstand the 
additional change that would make it meaningful today. The creative 
magician will combine with traditional elements his own special magic 
words and spells, those that have meaning for his purposes. A spell wrought 
especially for one’s own love might be better than a timeworn spelL The 


Pentagon, which likely would be unresponsive to ancient formulas, might 
rise in obedience to a carefully developed modern ceremony. 


1 Alphonse Constant, The Mysteries of Magic, London, 1886. 


2 Henry Cornelius Agrippa Von Nettesheim, The Philosophy of Natural Magic, Chicago, 1913. 


THE RITES OF SATANISM AND 
WITCHCRAFT 


A witch, said George Gifford, writing in the late sixteenth century, is 
“one that worketh by the Devil, or by some devilish curious art, either 
hurting or healing, revealing things secret or foretelling things to come, 
which the Devil hath devised to entangle and snare men’s souls withal unto 
damnation.”! The witch obtained her magical powers by making a pact with 
the Devil—either an express pact, a written or verbal agreement similar to 
that a magician might make, or a tacit pact, which resulted from the practice 
of magic acts, knowing that they were devilish. She might also inherit her 
powers of witchery from her mother, or receive them as a gift from another 
witch. From the Devil or another witch she received an attendant demon, 
called a familiar, usually in the shape of a domestic animal, such as a toad, a 
cat, a dog, a sheep, or a hare. Sometimes the familiar might take human 
form. The witch could use the familiar to kill or harm enemies, rewarding it 
with blood and by suckling it with her Witch’s Mark, an extra nipple. This 
mark might be identical with the Devil’s Mark, a small sign placed upon her 
by the Devil as a sign of his ownership. Both marks might be of various 
sizes, colors, shapes, and location. Suspected witches were carefully 
examined for marks and pricked with pins or needles to locate the Devil’s 
Mark, which was thought to be insensitive and unable to bleed. A witch was 
further identifiable by the fact that she could not shed tears or look a man in 
the eye, cross a threshold without stumbling, or sink in water. 

Witches were said to be organized in groups of thirteen called covens.2 
The head of a coven was a male witch, who impersonated the Devil, and the 
twelve other witches were usually all female. In his skeptical account of 
witchcraft, Reginald Scot described the belief in the greater susceptibility of 
women to witchery: “For ... they have an unbridled force of fury and 
concupiscence naturally that by no means it is possible for them to temper 


or moderate the same. So as upon every trifling occasion, they (like brute 
beast) fix their furious eyes upon the part whom they bewitch ... And if it 
were true, honest women may be witches, in despight of all Inquisitors: 
neither can any avoid being a witch, except she lock herself up in a 
Chamber.”2 


Covens gathered together periodically in festivals called Sabbats. 
Although Sabbats were probably held frequently, several days were 
occasions for larger gatherings, or Grand Sabbats. The most important days 
were Halloween and May Day (Beltane); others were Candlemas (February 
2), Lammas (August 1), St. Thomas Day (December 1), the Eve of St. John 
(June 23), and Good Friday. Except for Good Friday, these were originally 
days of pagan festivities. 


Sabbats were held in forests, meadows, churchyards, and caves, at 
crossroads, lakes, and streams, and around stones. The Sabbat began at 
midnight and ended at dawn, when at the crow of the cock, all would 
vanish. Light was supplied by black candles, or by ignited Hands of Glory 
(see chapter on amulets and talismans). Witches traveled to the Sabbat on 
broomsticks, on demons disguised as animals, or simply by walking. Or 
they flew by rubbing themselves with flying, or transvection, ointments 
such as the following: 


1. “The fat of young children, and seeth it in water in a brazen vessel, 
reserving the thickest of that which remaineth in the bottom, which they lay 
up and keep until occasion serveth to use it,” add eleoselinum, aconite, 
poplar leaves, mountain parsley, wolves-bane, and soot. 


2. Belladonna, water parsnip, sweet flag, cinquefoil, bat’s blood, oil. 
3. Water parsnip, belladonna, aconite, cinquefoil, baby’s fat, soot.4 


Most of the recipes would certainly affect one’s perceptions and sense of 
space and perspective, possibly to the extent of creating the illusion of 
flight. 


For traveling to and from the Sabbat, witches would recite a magic 
formula such as: “Thout, tout, a tout, tout, throughout and about,” and 


“Rentum Tormentum.’= 


The general order of a typical Sabbat was: 


1. Homage to the Devil, usually performed as the Osculum Infame, 
kissing the hindquarters of the Devil. 


2. Wild dancing, performed back-to-back (supposedly so that the 
witches would not have to see each other’s faces) and widdershins, or 
counterclockwise, in a circle. Witches also performed La Volta, a leaping 
dance from Italy and follow-the-leader dances. Sometimes the dancing was 
accompanied by a song, such as this from Scotland: “Commer goe ye before, 
commer goe ye, Gif ye will not goe boefore, commer let me,” or this: “Har, 
har, Devil, devil, dance here, play here, Sabbath, Sabbath.”2 


3. Copulation with the Devil and with each other. The Devil was 
impersonated by a male witch in animal disguise. His sexual duties probably 
depended on whether any of the other witches were also male and whether 
local peasants who were not members of the cult attended the festivities and 
participated in the orgy. Since copulation with the Devil was generally 
described as cold and unpleasant and since children did not result except by 
mutual consent, it is possible that artificial phalluses were used when there 
were few male witches present. The Devil sometimes beat witches for 
lagging in the dance or simply for his own pleasure. 


4. Feasting, although sometimes the food was described as insubstantial, 
tasteless, and unsatisfying. According to some witch-hunters, dead bodies 
were consumed. 


5. Baptism or initiation (this rite might begin the Sabbat ceremonies). 
The new witch would usually place one hand on her head and the other on 
the sole of one foot and promise to the Devil everything between the two. 
The Devil might give her a mark, often by biting or scratching, and baptize 
her with a new name. 


6. Reports of magic worked and instructions in magic. 


7. Religious ceremony, which might include a Black Mass and sacrifice. 
Animals, such as black hens, and unbaptized children were offered to the 
Devil. The Black Mass, when performed, was probably a genuine magic 
ceremony, possibly for the purpose of bewitching the cruel Christian god, 
rather than a mere parody of the Christian rite. 


Although the Church persecuted the witches as Devil-worshippers, the 
homed God they worshipped was more likely a survival of the gods of the 
primitive animal cults. He appeared to them most often as a goat, 
sometimes as a horse, a bull, or dog, a cat, or a large man clad in black or 
green. Sometimes he appeared with a candle between his horns. The 
abandoned dancing and orgies were probably derived from fertility rites 
practiced by their remote ancestors. 


Modern witches, too, worship a horned god, who is entirely distinct from 
the Satan of Christianity. However, whether or not his worshippers are 
really carrying on the traditions of what they refer to as “the old religion,” 
their god has little resemblance to the earthy god of the witches of history. 
And his functions are now shared by a queen or goddess, who is perhaps 
slightly more important. 


A modern coven, at least in the United States and England, usually 
consists of six male and female couples, preferably close to each other, and 
one leader, usually a woman. Although they worship in the nude, their rites 
otherwise retain no characteristics of worship of a pagan god. They do 
practice magic, but primarily by use of the group will. They abstain from 
any practice of black magic and shun sacrifice. One unusual practice of 
modern witches is the use of the magic circle solely to concentrate the 
power within, rather than to keep out the evil forces; the witches may move 
in and out of it as they wish. 


The persecution of witches as Satan-worshippers was primarily a case of 
mistaken identity. There are organizations, however, whose members 
worship or pretend to worship the Devil. Some Satanists maintain that 
Christ is evil and that the Devil represents the good that is oppressed by 
Christianity, but the term Satanist usually applies to one who worships the 
Devil as the principle of evil. In the past, 


Satanism has seemed a parody of Christianity, with no positive objectives 
and practices. However, the main rite of Satanism, the Black Mass, has 
frequently been used as a ceremony of black magic, the object usually to 
win back a lover or to kill an enemy. 


The Black Mass is performed with many variations, but traditionally it is 
literal parody of the classic mass with rituals and the Lord’s Prayer 
performed backward. A priest, sometimes defrocked, should officiate, a 
prostitute assists him, and a nude virgin, who may later be deflowered, is 
the altar. A consecrated wafer must be obtained from communion, and it 
may be smeared with urine, menstrual blood, or semen, or the name of 
Satan and magical characters or Hebrew characters in reverse may be 
written upon it. The wafer, or another object substituted for it, such as a 
turnip, may be colored red or black. Menstrual or bat’s blood or urine may 
replace the wine. The virgin lies on an altar, sometimes a coffin, covered 
with black velvet Upon it are black candles and an upsidedown cross. The 
black chalice is placed upon her abdomen. Sometimes its contents are 
poured on her body. For a love charm, a cake may be baked in a small oven 
that is placed upon her. 


Animals, such as black cats, or children may be sacrificed; participants 
may drink the blood of the sacrifice. An orgy of participants often follows 
the mass. 


1 Quoted in Richard Boulton, A Compleat History of Magick, Sorcery, and Witchcraft, London, 1715. 


2 The word first appears in the records of the witch trials in Scotland in 1662. The word is derived 
from the same source as “convent”, and the membership of thirteen might have been based on the 
number of Christ and his twelve apostles. 


3 Reginald Scot, The Discoverie of Witchcraft, London, 1655. 
4 Ibid. 

DJ oseph Glanvill, Saducismus Triumphatus, London, 1681. 

8 Newes from Scotland, Edinburgh, 1591. 


Z Scot, op. cit. 


THE MAGIC CEREMONY 


Throughout the ages, magicians have developed complex ceremonies 
with which to best intensify and release the forces of their incantations. 
Some ceremonies, such as those of witchcraft, involving sacrifice, orgies, or 
communal feasting, must be performed by a group. But the classic magic 
ceremony may be performed by the magician alone, or with one or several 
assistants. 


The golden age of ceremonial magic was the late Middle Ages, and the 
magic rituals surviving from this period have inspired ceremonies of many 
modern occult orders. These handbooks are sometimes categorized as those 
of theurgy (or white magic), such as the Key of Solomon, and of goety (or 
black magic). The latter are known as grimoires (from the Old French for 
grammar) and include the Grand Grimoire, True Black Magic, the 
Grimorium Verum, and the Grimoire of Honorius,! However, both black 
and white rituals include instructions for dealing with demons, making 
pacts, and procedures to harm enemies, as well as more benevolent spells 
and prayers to the deity. All could more accurately be described as gray. 


This form of ceremony is still in use, although most modern magicians 
prefer to simplify it. Perhaps the modern magician gives more thought than 
did his ancestors to the unwritten form of the ceremony, to his movements 
and gestures, and to the use of sound. The modem ceremony is usually 
divided by knocks, or knells, blows struck by the wand, dagger, hands, feet, 
or bell, signifying divisions of the ceremony. Knocks also help to summon 
and banish evil spirits. The use of appropriate music often improves the 
ceremony. 


Magicians still use the names for God and the demons, but not so literally 
as their predecessors. Now the names are held to stand for forces of nature 


and creation. The magician today may use names from several civilizations, 
Egyptian, Indian, Babylonian. 


Following are instructions for the magic ceremony, with examples of 
different sorts of incantations, as given in medieval magic handbooks. 


Consecration 


Before engaging in the practice of magic, it is necessary to first observe a 
period from three days to several weeks of consecration of body and soul to 
the task. 


Consecration generally involves prayer, chastity, fasting, and careful 
regulation of all ordinary activities. Typical instructions are these of the 
Grand Grimoire: 


You must abstain during an entire quarter of the moon from the society 
of females, so as to protect yourself from the possibility of impurity. 
You must commence your magical quarter at the same moment with 
that of the luminary itself by a pledge to the Grand Adonay, who is the 
Master of all Spirits, and make no more than two collations daily, that 
is to say, in every twenty-four hours, of the said quarter of the Moon, 
which collations should be taken at noon and midnight, or, if it better 
please you, at seven o’clock in the morning at the corresponding hour 
in the evening, using the following prayer previously to each repast 
during the whole of the said quarter: 


Prayer 


I implore Thee, Thou Grand and Powerful Adonay, Master of all 
Spirits! I beseech Thee, O Eloim, I give unto Thee my soul, my heart, 
my inward parts, my hands, my feet, my desires, my entire being! O 
Grand Adonay, deign to be favorable unto me! So be it—Amen. 

Then take your repast, disrobe as seldom and sleep as little as possible 
during the whole of said period, but meditate continually on your 


undertaking and center all your hopes in the infinite goodness of the 
Great Adonay.* 


Should the magician find it necessary to cut hair or nails during the 
period, he should carefully collect all severed bits and destroy them by fire. 
Otherwise evil spirits might find them and use them to harm him. Every day 
during consecration the magician should wash hands and face with a clean 
white cloth and consecrated water, uttering an appropriate prayer, such as 
the following from the Grimorium Verum: 


Prayer 


Lord God Adonay, who has formed man out of nothing to Thine own 
image and likeness, and me also, unworthy sinner as I am, deign, I 
pray Thee, to bless and sanctify this water, that it may be healthful to 
my body and soul, that all delusion may depart from me. O Lord God, 
Almighty and Ineffable, who didst lead forth thy people from the land 
of Egypt, and didst cause them to pass dry-shod over the Red Sea. 
Grant that I may be cleansed by this water from all my sins, and may 
appear innocent before Thee. Amen.2 


A bath must be taken on the last day before the ceremony. 


Consecration is still vitally important, but it no longer requires absolute 
chastity and fasting. The nature of consecration depends upon the 
individual; what is important is that he choose the kinds of restrictions and 
activities which will best enable him to concentrate his entire will upon the 
magical task. 


Preparation of Garments and Instruments 


The magician’s robes, often in two parts, should be made of fine white 
linen and embroidered with magic characters (see chapter on magic 
numbers, words, and symbols). His shoes and hat are usually of white 
leather. For black magic, garments may be made of black cloth or cat-skin, 


bear, wolf, or swine skin. Sewing thread is of silk, cat gut, ass’s hair, man’s 
nerve, or skin from bats, owls, moles, cats, or men, and needles are made 
from the bones of these animals or from hedgehog prickles. The hours of 
the moon and Saturn, during the moon’s increase, are appropriate for 
sewing the garments. 


On donning his robes, the magician should say (from True Black Magic): 


Anton, Amator, Emites, Theodoriel, Poncor, Pagor, Anitor; by virtue of 
these most holy Angelic Names do I clothe myself, O Lord, in my 
Sabbath garments, that so I may fulfill, even unto their term, all things 
which I desire to effect through Thee, Most Holy Adonay whose 


kingdom and rule endure forever and ever. Amen.4 


The magician must manufacture his own instruments, even to making 
steel for blades. According to True Black Magic, the necessary instruments 
are sword, staff, rod, lancet, hook, sickle, needle, poniard, white-handled 
knife, and black-handled knife (used to draw the magic circle). However, 
the most important are probably rod, staff, knife, stylet, and the sword. 


According to the Grand Grimoire, the rod should be a wand of hazel 
exactly 19% inches long, cut, at the moment of sunrise, with one blow from 
a tree that has never borne fruit. It is sometimes conceded that the magician 
may purchase his tools, or parts of them, such as blades of knives; they are 
then consecrated and inscribed with magical characters. However, this 
procedure is fraught with danger, since it may render him vulnerable to 
control by evil spirits and entail the possible sacrifice of his soul. 


The magician must compose his candles and magic images of virgin wax 
or virgin dirt. He was also required to procure virgin parchment, which 
necessitated the sacrifice of a virgin kid. However, ordinary paper that has 
never been used should fulfill the condition of virginity for the modern 
magician. In any case, parchment or paper that was not obtained by 
sacrifice should be asperged and fumigated three times. 


Fewer tools are used by magicians today. The rod or wand, dagger, and 
cup or pentacle are usually sufficient. They need not be handmade, although 
many magicians still make their own rods and dagger handles. 


For consecrating the instruments, the following formula from True Black 
Magic may be used: 


Entabor, Natabor, Si Tasibor, Admay, An, Layamon, Tinormes, eos 
Phildoes.2 


The instruments are then wrapped in silk cloth, of any color as long as it 
is not black or brown, until ready for use. 


Aspersion and Fumigation 


Before the performance of magic, the instruments must be purified by 
aspersion or sprinkling. The sprinkling substance, or Aspergillus, is usually 
composed of mint, marjoram, and rosemary bound with a thread woven in 
the hour and day of Mercury, while the moon was waxing, by a virgin girl. 
It is contained in a pot of glazed earth or brass filled with fresh spring water 
and a little salt. 


The instruments are then fumigated by aromatic substances smoked in a 
chafing dish. The most frequent perfumes used for general purposes are 
incense and aloes wood. For others, see the Appendix on Magic Fumes. 


Ordinarily a prayer such as this from Grimorium Verum would be recited: 


Zazay, Salmay, Dalmay, Angerection, Ledrion, Amisor, Euchey Or! 
Great Angels! And do thou also, O Adonay, be present and impart 
hereto such virtue that this creature may receive a form whereby our 
work may be accomplished. In the Name of the Father and of the Son 
and of the Holy Ghost. Amen.® 


But when the ceremony is for the working of evil, foulsmelling perfumes 
are used witth the following prayer from True Black Magic: 


Adonay, Lazay, Delmay, Amay, Saday, Eloy, by the invocation, O 
Saviour, of Thy Most Holy Name, vouchsafe us through this kind, the 


help of thy grace, and may it assist us in all things which we need to 
fulfill; may all malice pass out therefrom, and may it be blessed and 


sanctified in Thy most powerful Name. Amen.2 


Magic Circle 


The time and place for the magic ceremony are chosen according to the 
nature of the operation and to the planetary spirits it is necessary to invoke. 
Generally best is a secluded place where the magician will be free from 
interruption, for instance, his own home if he can keep away visitors, a 
forest, or a meadow. Experiments in black magic are best performed in 
woods or deserts, at a crossroads, ruins, or the seashore, or in a room with 
black draperies, during lightning and wind storms and in bright moonlight. 
For magical purposes, each hour of the day and each day of the week is 
attributed to rule by one of the planets, and a magical operation, for instance 
destroying an enemy, will usually be performed on the day and the hour of 
the planet by which it is ruled, in this case, Mars. To find out how to set the 
time for a spell, consult the tables of Hours of the Day and Night and 
Government of the Planets. 


The final step of preparation, and the initial step of the ceremony itself, is 
the drawing of the magic circle. Not only will this circle help concentrate 
the magician's power, but it will protect him from attack by evil spirits. 
Careful attention must be paid to its perfect execution. 


The circle is almost always nine feet in diameter, and is usually 
accompanied by an inner circle eight feet in diameter or an outer circle that 
is six inches or a foot larger. Between the two circles and sometimes within 
the inner circle magic words, especially the names of God, and symbols are 
written. Among the symbols used most frequently are the pentacle, or five- 
pointed star, and the equilateral triangle (see chapter on magic numbers, 
words, and symbols). The circle is often made of chalk or vermilion, but 
other materials, preferably composed by the magician himself, may be used. 
A black circle is most effective for operations of evil. The magic circle 


should be drawn with a new sword or rod, leaving an opening through 
which the magician enters. He must be careful to close the circle 
completely, and make it secure, or he may be in grave danger from demons. 
After composition, the circle is fumed with mace, which helps banish evil 
spirits. Within the circle is an altar facing east, covered with white linen and 
supporting two white wax candles. For spells of death and destruction, the 
candles and linen are black. 


An imaginary circle may be used instead, but successful execution of it is 
extremely difficult. Following are Reginald Scot's instructions: 


Let the exorcist, being clothed with a black garment reaching to his 
knee and under that a white robe of fine linen that falls unto his ankles, 
fix himself in the midst of that place where he intends to perform his 
conjurations: And throwing his old shoes about ten yards from the 
place, let him put on his consecrated shoes of russet leather with a 
cross out on the top of each shoe. Then with his magical wand, which 
must be a new hazel-stick, about two yards of length, be must stretch 
forth his arm to all the four windes thrice, turning himself round at 
every winde, and saying all that while with fervency: 

I who am the servant of the Highest, do by the vertue of his Holy 
Name Immanuel, sanctifie unto myself the circumference of nine foot 
around me. From the East, Glaurab; from the West, Garron; from the 
North, Cabon; from the South, Berith; which ground I take for my 
proper defense from all malignant spirits, that they may have no power 
over my soul or body nor come beyond these limitations, but answer 
truly being summoned, without daring to transgress their bounds.”2 


Following the completion of the magic circle, the magician is ready to 
embark upon his dealings with the infernal spirits. But first, whether his 
incantations be for good or evil, he has assured himself the blessings of God 
and the good angels through his preparatory prayers and consecration; and 
during the ceremony itself he may repeat additional prayers before 
conjuration. But although various names for God, such as Adonay, are used 
in magic, and angels assigned to planetary influence (see appendix table on 
government of planets), the hierarchy of demons occupies a more important 
place in both black and white magic rituals. Some of the most important 


demons are listed in the table of the hierarchy of spirits. However, many 
incantations include names of demons that are never fisted or described 
elsewhere in the magic ritual; and the magician requires no direct 
knowledge of the functions of the demons. The conjuration itself is 
adequate. 


In conjuring spirits, the magician generally both writes and recites the 
incantations. Often the spirits will prove obdurate, and more awesome and 
threatening incantations may be necessary. When the spirit has finally 
appeared and performed the will of the magician, he must be discharged. If 
not, the spirit may attack the magician once he has left the protection of the 
magic circle. 


Following are typically vague instructions for conjuration of spirits from 
the Grimorium Verum: 


On the day and hour of Mars, the Moon waxing, and the first hour of 
the day, prepare a piece of virgin parchment containing the characters 
and invocations of Spirits desired to invoke: 


Conjuration to Lucifer 


Lucifer, Ouyar, Chameron, Aliseon, Mandousin, Premy, Oriet, 
Naydrus, Esmony, Eparinesont, Estiot, Dumosson, Danochar, Casmiel, 
Hayras, Fabelleronthon, Sodirnot, Peatham, come, Lucifer. Amen. 


Conjuration for Beelzebuth 


Beelzebuth, Lucifer, Madilont, Solymo, Saroy, Ameclo, Segrael, 
Praredun, Adricanorom, Martiro, Timo, Cameron, Phorsy, Metosite, 
Prumosy, Dumaso, Elivisa, Alphross, Fubentronty, Come, Beelzebuth. 
Amen. 


Conjuration for Astaroth 


Astaroth, Ador, Cameso, Valuerituf Mareso, Lodir, Cadomir, Aluiel, 
Calniso, Tely, Pleorim, Viordy, Mens Calmiron, Noard, Nisa 
Chenibranbo Calevodium, Brazo, Tabrasol, Come, Astaroth. Amen. 
Having repeated seven times the conjuration addressed to one of these 
superior spirits, the same will forthwith manifest to perform 
whatsoever shall be desired.2 


Discharge 


Go in peace unto your places; may peace be with you, and be ye ready 
to come whensoever I shall call upon you. In the name of the Father 
and of the Son and of the Holy Ghost. Amen./2 


Conjuration for Inferior Spirits 


O Surmy, Delmusan, Atalsloym, Charwihoa, Melany, Liamintho, 
Colehon, Paron, Madoin, Merloy, Bulerators, Donmeo, Hone, Peloym, 
Ibasil, Meon, Alymd Rictels, Person, Crisolsay, Lemon Sefle Nidar 
Horiel Peunt, Halmon, Asophiel, [Inostreon, Beniel, Vermias, Eslevor, 
Neolma, Dorsamot, Lhavala, Omot, Frangam, Beldor, Dragin, Come.1! 
Add the names of the spirit you wish to invoke to the parchment. The 
characters should afterwards be burnt. 


Conjuration 


I conjure thee, N. by the great living God, the Sovereign Creator of all 
things, to appear under a comely human form, without noise and 
without terror, to answer truly unto all questions that I shall ask thee. 
Hereunto I conjure thee by the virtue of these Holy and Sacred 


Names.12 


Following is a conjuration from the Grimoire of Honorius: 


Very powerful Conjuration for all days and hours of the Day or Night, 
being for Treasures hidden by men or Spirits, that the same may be 
possessed and transported. I command you, O all ye demons dwelling 
in these parts, or in what part of the world so ever ye be, by 
whatsoever power may have been given you by God and our holy 
Angels over this place, and by the powerful principality of the infernal 
abysses, as also by all your brethren, both general and special demons, 
whether dwelling in East, West, South, or North, or in any side of the 
earth, and, in like manner, by the power of God the Father, by the 
wisdom of God the Son, by the vitue of the Holy Ghost, and by the 
authority I derive from our Saviour Jesus Christ, the only Son of the 
Almighty and the Creator, who made us and all creation from nothing, 
who also orders that you do hereby abdicate all power to guard, habit, 
and abide in this place; by whom further I constrain and command 
you, nolens volens, without guile or deception, to declare me your 
names, and to leave me in peaceable possession and rule over this 
place, of whatsoever legion ye be and of whatsoever part of the world; 
by order of the Most Holy Trinity and by the news of the Most Holy 
and Blessed Virgin, as also of all the Saints, I unbind you all, spirits 
who abide in this place, and I drive you to the deepest infernal abysses. 
Thus: Go all Spirits accursed, who are condemned to the flame eternal 
which is prepared for you and your companions, if ye be rebellious and 
disobedient. I conjure you by the same authority, I exhort and call you, 
I constrain and command you, by the powers of your superior demons, 
to come, obey, and reply positively to what 1 direct you, in the name of 
Jesus Christ. Whence, if you or they do not obey promptly and without 
tarrying I will shortly increase your torments for a thousand years in 
hell I constrain you therefore to appear here in comely human shape, 
by the Most High Names of God, Hain, Lon, Hilay, Sabaoth, Helim, 


Radisha, Ledieha, Adonay, Jehovah, Yah, Tetragrammaton, Sadai, 
Messias, Agios, Ischyros, Emmanuel, Agla, Jesus who is Alpha and 
Omega, the beginning and end, that you be justly established in the 
fire, having no power to reside, habit, or abide in this place henceforth; 
and I require your doom by the virtue of the said names, to wit, that St. 
Michael drive you to the uttermost of the infernal abyss, in the name of 
the Father, and of the Son, and of the Holy Ghost. So be it. 


I conjure thee, Acham, or whomsoever thou mayst be, by the Most 
Holy Names of God, by Malhame, Jae, May Mabron, Jacob, 
Dasmedias, Eloy Aterestin, Janastardy, Finis, Agios, Ischyros, Otheos, 
Athanatos, Agla, Jehova, Homosion, Agla, Messias, Sother, Christus 
vincit, Christus imperat, Christus Spiritus Sanctus. 


I conjure thee, Cassiel, or whomsoever thou mayst be, by all the said 
names with power and with exorcism! I warn thee by the other sacred 
names of the most powerful Creator, which are or shall hereafter be 
communicated to thee: hearken forthwith and immediately to my 
words, and observe them inviolably as sentences of the last dreadful 
day of judgment, which thou must obey inviolably, nor thinking to 
repulse me because I am a sinner, for therein shalt thou repulse the 
commands of the Most High God. Knowest thou not that thou art 
bereft of thy powers before thy Creator and ours? Think therefore what 
thou refusest, and pledge therefore thine obedience, swearing by the 
said last dreadful day of judgment, and by Him who hath created all 
things by His word, whom all creatures obey. P. per sedem Baldarey et 
per gratiam et diligentiam tuam habuist, ab eo hanc nalatimanamilam, 
as I command thee./2 


A magician who is inadequately prepared and cannot attain his desires 
may seek the aid of Satan by making a pact under which he agrees to serve 
the Devil for a number of years or to surrender his soul. However, pacts 
given in the black magic handbooks are generally worded so that the entire 
benefit is to the magician, with the demon receiving little or nothing for his 
troubles. Following is a conjuration from the Grand Clavicle: 


Grand Conjuration of Spirits with Whom It Is Sought 
to Make a Pact 


Emperor Lucifer, Master of all the revolted spirits, I entreat thee to 
favor me in the adjuration which I address to thy mighty minister, 
Lucifuge Rofocale, being desirous to make a pact with him. O Count 
Astarot! be propitious to me, and grant that tonight the great Lucifuge 
may appear to me under a human form, free from evil smell, and that 
he may accord me, in virtue of the pact which I propose to enter into, 
all the riches that I need. O grand Lucifuge, I pray thee to quit thy 
dwelling, wheresoever it may be, and come hither to speak with me; 
otherwise, will I compel thee by the power of the strong living God, 
His beloved Son and the Holy Spirit. Obey promptly, or thou shalt be 
eternally tormented by the power of the potent words in the grand 
Clavicle of Solomon, wherewith he was accustomed to compel the 
rebellious spirits to receive his compact. Then straightway appear, or I 
will persistently torture thee by the virtue of these great words in the 
Clavicle. 


Aglon, Tetragram, vaycheon, stimulamation, ezphares, retragrammaton 
olyaram irion esytion existion eryona onera orasym mozm messias 


soter Emmanuel Sabaoth Adonay, te adoro, et te invoco. Amen.14 


The pact itself was usually simple: “I promise to grand Lucifuge to 
reward him in twenty years time for all the treasures that he may give me. 


In witness thereof I have signed myself .” (From the 
Grand Grimoire.) 


The pact was written with a new quill on virgin parchment using a 
special ink such as the following: 

10 oz. gall nuts 

3 Oz. green copperas 

3 oz. rock alum or gum Arabic 

Make a powder, and mix it with river water.1® 


The pact must be signed with the magician’s blood. 


Miscellaneous Operations 


From True Black Magic: 
Concerning the experiment of love 


Whatsoever person be the object of this experiment, whether man or 
woman, it is needful in making it to observe the proper day and hour, 
and note further that it is performed by means of an image of wax or 
other suitable material. Before composing it, say the following words 
over the wax: 


Noga, Jes, Astropolim, Asmo, Coccav, Bermona, Tentator, Soignator 
—TI conjure you, ministers of love and uncleanness, by Him who hath 
condemned you to hell! Do ye consecrate this wax in a regular manner, 
that it may acquire the desired virtue by the power of the Most Holy 
Adonay, who liveth and reigneth for ever and ever. Amen. 


The image must then be composed of suitable characters inscribed 
thereon with the male-goose-quill of the Art, after which it must be 
fumigated while reciting the following words: 


—O thou most powerful King Paymon, whose absolute rule and reign 
is in the western quarter! O thou, Egim, most strong King, whose 
empire is in the cold region! O thou, Asmodeus, who governeth in the 
south! O thou, Aymamon, most noble King, monarch of the eastern 
world whose reign began from of old and will endure to the end of 
time! I invoke and beseech you by Him who spake and it was, whose 
sole word hath created all, whom all creatures obey; by the seat of his 
Majesty; by his will and his Name; by Him who was before the ages 
and hath created the ages; whose Name is written with the four letters 
Jod, He, Vau, He; by the enchantments and power thereof; and by all 
the signal names of the Creator, I conjure you to consecrate this image 
and grant that it may acquire virtue according to our desire, by the 
Most Holy Name Adonay, the power of which is without beginning or 
end. 


This being done, conjure with the Conjuration of the image, and if the 
woman or man should not appear, place the said image beneath the 


pillow of your bed, and before three days you shall behold admirable 
things, while chains on earth shall not stay the desired person from 
coming to you, for the fulfillment of your purpose, nothing being 
excepted. 


But if the experience be to find the beloved person, place the image 
under the door which he or she must pass. In either case a powder must 
be made and cast upon the person, or given them with their meat or 
drink. The solemnities of the hours, matters, and instruments must be 
faithfully observed, and the Spirits conjured by name, saying also: I 
conjure and constrain you, ye Devils, who have the power to disturb 
the hearts of men and women! By him who hath created you from 
nothing and by this image, I conjure you this night into my presence, 
that I may have the power to compel whomsoever I will to love me, 
whether male or female. 


When the characters and image have been prepared, say over them: I 
conjure you, O Anael, Donquel, Theliel, princess of love, with all your 
ministers, who have power to fill with warmth the hearts of men and 
women, and to kindle the fire of love! I conjure you by Him who is 
seated upon the Cherubim and guardeth the abysses, by Him who 
maketh the world to tremble, whom all creatures obey! Grant that 
these characters and figures possess this virtue, that such man or 
woman may love me, may desire me, and burn for my love, and that it 
shall be impossible for him or her to love any person save me. Place 
the image in a vessel for one night, operate on the day and in the hour 
appropriate thereto, and you shall behold a wonder.“ 


From the Grand Grimoire: 


To cause a girl to seek you out, however prudent she may be: 


Whether in the increase or wane of the Moon, a star must be observed 
between eleven o’clock and midnight. But before beginning, do as 
follows. Take a virgin parchment. Write thereon her name whose 
presence you desire. The parchment must be shaped as represented in 
the following figure. On the other side inscribe these words: 
Melchiael, Bareschas. 


Then place your parchment on the earth, with the person’s name 
against the ground. Place your right foot above it, while your left knee 
is bent to the earth. In this position, observe the brightest star in the 
firmament, holding in the right hand a taper of white wax large enough 
to last for an hour, and recite the following: 


ee 


Conjuration 


I salute and conjure you, O beautiful Moon, O beautiful Star, O bright 
light, which 1 hold in my hand! By the air which I breathe, by the 
breath which is within me, by the earth which I touch, I conjure you, 
and by all the names of the spirits who are princes residing in you; by 
the ineffable Name ON, which hath created all, by thee, O Resplendant 
Angel Gabriel, together with the Prince Mercury, Michiael, and 
Melchidael, I conjure you again by all the divine names of God, that 
you send down to obsess, torment, and harass the body, spirit, soul, 
and five senses of the nature of N., whose name is written here below, 
in such a way that she shall come unto me and accomplish my will, 
having no friendship for any one in the world, but especially for N., so 


long as she shall be indifferent to me. So shall she endure not, so shall 
she be obsessed, so suffer, so be tormented. Go then promptly; go, 
Melchidael, Baresches, Zazel, Firiel, Mal-cha, and all those who are 
without you. I conjure you by the great living God to accomplish my 
will, and I, N., do promise to satisfy you duly. 


Having thrice pronounced this conjuration, place the taper on the 
parchment and let it burn. Take the parchment on the morrow, put it in 
your left shoe and there leave it until the person for whom you have 
operated shall have come to seek you out. You must specify in the 
Conjuration the day that you desire her to come, and she will not fail.18 

For divination, especially in the discovery of buried treasure, spirits may 
be called into a crystal glass by a conjuration such as this from Reginald 
Scot’s Discoverie of Witchcraft: 


Also, I do conjure thee, spirit N., by God the Father, by God the Son, 
by God the Holy Ghost, a and Q, the first and the last, and by the latter 
day of Judgment, of them which shall come to judge the quick and the 
dead, and the world by fire, and by their virtues and powers, I 
constrain thee, Spirit N., to come to him that holdeth the Crystal-stone 
in his hand, and to appear visibly, as hereafter followeth. Also I 
conjure thee, Spirit N., by these holy Names of God Tetragrammaton 
Adonai El Duston Agla Jesus of Nazareth, and by the vertues thereof, 
and by his nativity, death, burial, resurrection, and ascension, and by 
all other things appertaining unto his passion, and by the blessed 
Virgin Mary, Mother of our Lord Jesus Christ, and by all the joy which 
she had when she saw her son rise from death to life, and by the 
vertues and powers thereof. I constrain thee, Spirit N., to come into the 
Crystal-stone, and to appear visibly, as hereafter shall be declared. 
Also I conjure thee N., thou Spirit, by all Angels, Archangels, Thrones, 
Dominations, Principates, Potestates, Virtutes, Cherubim, and 
Seraphim, and by the © ) h 4 o& Q &, and by the twelve signs, 
and by their vertues and powers, and by all things created and 
confirmed in the Firmaments, and by these vertues and powers, 1 
constrain thee, Spirit N., to appear visibly in the Crystal-stone, in fair 
form and shape of a white Angel, a green Angel, a black Angel, a 
Man, a Woman, a Boy, a maiden Virgin, a white Greyhound, a Devil 


with great horns, without any hurt or danger of our bodies or souls, and 
truly to inform and show us true visions of all things in the Crystal- 
stone, according to thine Oath and Promise, and that without any 
hindrance or tarrying, to appear visibly, by this Bond of Words read 


over by me three times, upon pain of everlasting condemnation. Fiat, 


fiat. Amen.22 


1 All are contained in A. E. Waite’s, The Book of Black Magic and of Pacts, London, 1898. 
2 Ibid. 

3 Ibid. 

4 Ibid. 

2 Ibid. 

8 Ibid. 

Z Ibid. 

8 Reginald Scot, The Discoverie of Witchcraft, London, 1655. 


3 Waite, op. cit. The Grand Grimoire suggests that these spirits be invoked by means of their 
characters written in blood of the magician or of a sea turtle, or engraved on an emerald or a ruby. 


10 Thi. 
11 jpid. 
12 hid. 
13 Ibid. 
14 hid. 
15 Ibid. 
16 Thid. 
17 Ibid. 


18 Tid, 


19 Scot, op. cit. 


GLOSSARY OF MAGICAL HERBS, 
STONES, AND ANIMALS 


“Everything hath his own natural virtues, by which everything is a 
beginning of a marvellous effect.”! Natural magic is the art of bringing 
about these marvelous effects inherent in seemingly ordinary herbs, stones, 
animals, and other natural substances. The following glossary gives only a 
sampling of the elements of natural magic, but knowledge of the following 
substances is adequate for composing spells and recipes for almost any 
magic purpose. For further information on natural magic, see the chapters 
on magic potions, and spells, charms, and incantations. 


Glossary 


ACONITE (or Wolf’s Bane or Leopard’s Bane or Monk’s Hood)—a 
poisonous plant that bears a hood-shaped flower of the genus Aconitum. 
Aconite was used by witches in many potions and flying ointments. 
According to ancient Greek legend, aconite came from the froth of the 
mouth of Cerberus, the dog that guarded the lower world. The moon 
goddess Hecate, who was the patroness of witches, discovered aconite, 
which was the first poison. English wise women have used it in treating 
gout and rheumatism. 


AETITES (or Aquilaeus)—stone found in an eagle, usually in the head, 
neck, or stomach. Aetites is a powerful talisman, bringing courage and 
good fortune to the wearer. It also is conducive to good health and 
longevity, and cures falling sickness when worn on the body. It is tied to 
a woman’s thigh to ease labor. Worn on the left arm it brings love 


between a married couple. “It makes women that are slippery able to 
conceive, being bound to the wrist of the left arm by which from the 
heart towards the Ring Finger, next to the little Finger, an artery runs; and 
if all time the woman is great with child, this jewel be worn on those 
parts, it strengthens the child and there is no fear of abortion or 
miscarriage.” 


AGATE—a variety of chalcedony with colored bands or other markings. To 
prevent snake and insect bites, engrave upon an agate a serpent or a man 
riding a serpent, and wear it as an amulet. An agate amulet makes the 
bearer eloquent and favored by the mighty, calms and refreshes him, and 
strengthens his heart. It prevents storms both as an amulet and as 
fumigation. The agate is also a truth talisman. Place it on the left breast 
of a sleeping woman, and she will tell you truthfully whatever you wish 
to know. 


AGRIMONY—a yellow-flowered plant of the genus Agrimonia. A handful 
of leaves, fresh or dried, steeped in a pint of water, are used to cure 
jaundice and diseases of the liver or blood. This solution cleans and 
brightens the skin when applied externally and purifies the blood when 
drunk. Take agrimony mixed with wine against snakebite. 


ALECTORIUS—stone from a cock. Alectorius is a powerful amulet for 
power, courage, and wealth. It brings about harmony between husband 
and wife, and dissolves all sorts of magic spells. Held in the mouth, it 
prevents thirst. Alectorius brings good luck generally and will make 
people do what the bearer wishes. To obtain it, lay a rooster in an ant hill 
for nine days, after which time you will find the stone. 


AMARANTH—a flower which never fades. It symbolizes immortality and 
is used in charms and amulets for fame and long life. Since it is highly 
unlikely that one might find this flower, he may substitute for it the 
mortal flower Amaranth, a coarse herb with small flowers. Dried and 
powdered flowers of red amaranth stop menstruation and hemorrhage. 
Flowers of white amaranth are used against venereal diseases. 


AMBER—translucent fossil resin, pale yellow or brownish in color, that 
acquires a negative charge by rubbing. Necklaces or amulets of amber are 


worn around the neck against many diseases, especially fever, 
rheumatism, and disease and weakness of the eyes. To look through 
amber strengthens the sight. A piece of red amber is excellent for 
protection from poison and plague. 


AMBERGRIS—secretion of the intestines of the sperm whale, an 


ingredient of magic perfumes. It is extensively used as an aphrodisiac, 
especially in the Orient, often in potions or introduced into beverages, 
such as coffee. 


AMETHYST (from Greek amethystos, meaning “not intoxicating”)—a 


purple gem-quartz wor as an amulet to prevent drunkenness. Taken in 
potions, it is a cure for poisoning and sterility. When worn it makes one 
witty and wise and improves the memory. If a man wears it, good women 
will love him. Worn to bed, it helps one fall asleep and brings good 
dreams. 


ANEMONE (or wind flower)—to cure inflammation of the eyelids, anoint 


them with an ointment made of this herb. Water obtained from boiling 
the leaves brings on menstruation. 


ANGELICA—plant of genus Angelica, with edible stalks and root that are 


used in potions and recipes against disease. While fasting, eat the roots 
candied or steeped in vinegar against infection. Take water distilled from 
the roots and mixed with wine against the common cold and lung disease. 
Angelica leaves (whose fragrance gives the plant its name) protect 
against witchcraft when worn on the body, carried, or placed about the 
house. 


ANIMAL CONCRETION—a stone found in some part of the body of an 


animal that contains the magical essence of the animal in concentrated 
form. Such stones are worn as amulets and are pulverized for use in 
potions and other recipes. They are usually obtained by killing the animal 
and leaving it to be eaten by ants, or by suspending it so that the stone 
will drop out of its mouth. The most powerful of these stones are listed 
herein under their own names, or the names of the animals from which 
they are obtained. 


ANT—this bloodless insect is a powerful ingredient in love potions. It is 


also used in plasters and ointments to stop bleeding. To cure a person 
who has been poisoned, a lump from an ant hill is fastened on his arm 
and some of it given to him in water to drink. To obtain bones, stones, or 
seed for magical purposes, the fruit or animal is often left on an ant hill; 
the object left after the ants have devoured it is considered purified. 


ANTIMONY—a white metallic element which protects one against 


witchcraft and demons when worn as an amulet. 


APPLE—either cut up or mashed, the apple is used in love potions and 


recipes. It is also used in working magic against enemies, especially 
when cut with a knife. 


ASH—the bark of this tree is given ground up in potions and recipes for 
spleen and liver disease. For jaundice, nine young shoots from the root of 
an ash tree that was cut down are buried in a bottle in a secret place, 
without the patient’s knowledge. If the bottle is broken or taken away, the 
patient will have a relapse. Drink distilled water of ash leaves in the 
moming while fasting, to decrease weight. On St. John’s Eve the red bud 
of the ash is eaten to prevent witchcraft and the evil eye. 


ASPARAGUS—wine in which roots of asparagus were boiled helps relieve 


toothache when held in the mouth. To arouse lust, take it several 
mornings in a row, fasting. Bathe in the liquid to ease cramps and pains 
in the lower body. 


ASS—sleeping upon the skin of this animal keeps away devils, witches, 


and nightmares. Ass’s hairs are often used in love potions: “If the hairs of 
a He-Asses Ears be burnt and powdered and given to a woman in drink, 
she will never cease panting. And the curing of this thing is, if you bummt 
the hairs of a She-Ass, and give them to drink.”2 The right testicle of an 
ass is worn as a bracelet to bring love. Anoint yourself with ass’s milk to 
win the love of the one you desire. 


BADGER—the foot of the animal, buried under one’s bed, arouses lust. 


BASIL—a common herb that draws poison from a sting wound when 
applied. “To make that a woman shall eate of nothing that is set upon the 
table. Take a little grene Basil, and when men bring the dishes to the 
table, put it underneath them, let the woman perceive it not; for men saye 
that she will eate of none of that which is in the dishe where under the 
Basil lieth.”4 


BASILISK (or Cockatrice)—a mythical animal, usually a serpent or lizard, 
that could kill a man by its glance. The basilisk was hatched from the egg 
of a cock by a serpent or toad. The eye of the basilisk was a common 
ingredient in witches’ potions, although an ordinary lizard was probably 
substituted. Its blood, which is called the Blood of Saturn, brings good 
fortune and the fulfillment of wishes, and prevents diseases, when carried 
about one. 


BAT (or Flitter Mouse)—one of the eyes of the bat is a talisman for 
invisibility, some say the right and others the left. The eye may be 
pierced with a needle when used for this purpose. The heart of a bat 
bound to the right arm with a red thread brings good luck at cards. The 
head tied to the right arm with a black cloth prevents sleep. If the blood 
of a bat is put under a woman’s head while she sleeps, without her 
knowledge, she will conceive the next time she lies with a man. In 
Chinese amulets, the image of the bat is used to bring wealth, happiness, 
and long life. 


BDELLIUM—gum resin, similar to myrrh, from trees of the genus 
Commiphora, used in ancient India in potions and charms against 
disease. 


BEAN—the bean is a powerful sexual and fertility symbol. It makes men 
potent, but may cause sterility in women. Beans are used in charms and 
amulets against witchcraft and the evil eye. Beans were forbidden to 
ancient Egyptian priests and were later considered sacred in some Greek 
and Roman cults. To remove spots and wrinkles, wash the face with 
water distilled from the flowers of garden beans. 


BEAR—the fat of a bear in an ointment or potion induces fear. The claws, 
worn on a string around the neck, ease childbirth. Carry the heart of a 


bear with you to bring wealth, power, and happiness. 


BELLADONNA (or Deadly Nightshade)—a poisonous witch herb of the 
Solanaceae family with black berries and dark reddish leaves. The leaves 
were used in flying ointments, and their stimulation of the heart and the 
respiratory system may have contributed to the illusion of flying. Drunk 
in potions, they produced visions and hallucinations and gave one the 
ability to foretell the future. If you administer the distilled juice of the 
leaves to someone, he imagines whatever you wish him to. Applied 
externally, the leaves are soothing to inflammation and swelling. Juice 
from the root may also be used, but like the leaves, only with the utmost 
caution. The berries of the plant are deadly. Belladonna is used in fumes 
for evoking spirits. 


BERYL—an opaque or transparent green stone which hinders lust when 
worn as an amulet or powdered and drunk in a potion. However, the beryl 
helps bring about love and harmony between married couples. Worn as 
an amulet, it enables the bearer to win arguments, gain understanding, 
and become well mannered, and drives away his enemies. You can cure 
swollen glands by rubbing them with a beryl. If you gaze into a beryl, 
you may be able to see the future and to attain better understanding. “For 
dyspnoic, Epileptick, and Nephritick People. Take one Beryl stone, and 
engrave a Crow upon it, and under its feet a Crab; enclose also a little 
Savine, and a little of the heart of the bird under the Stone, wear it as you 
will ... And it will make the bearer cheerful and rich: and it is as 
excellent as any thing for lascivious and conjugal love.”2 


BETONY (or Wood-Betony)—an herb of the mint family that is worn in an 
amulet to strengthen the body and protect from witchcraft and nightmare. 
Dried and powdered or used in tea, it is good for the head and nerves. 
Mixed with honey, the powder cures coughs and colds; taken with honey 
and vinegar, it refreshes one after traveling. 


BEZOAR—stone from the stomach, liver, or intestines of a goat or deer, 
which is powdered and drunk as a cure for poisoning. It can also be worn 
by the patient or touched to his body. In powdered form, it is conducive 
to strength and longevity. 


BINDWEED—a twining plant of the genus Convolvulus that is used in a 
charm and potions to ease childbirth and women’s pains. 


BLACK CAT—see Cat, Black. 
BLACK DOG—see Dog, 
BLACK HEN—see Hen. 


BLOOD—human and animal blood, especially fresh, is used extensively in 
all varieties of potions and recipes. Human blood is used to sign pacts 
with the Devil. Your own blood, introduced into the food of the one you 
love, will help win his affection. Magic against an enemy can be worked 
with great efficiency if you have some of his blood to incorporate into an 
image, to boil, to scatter on the ground, or to otherwise harm. See 
Menstrual Blood. 


BLOODSTONE (also Heliotrope)—a greenish chalcedony with spots of red 
jasper that resemble blood. Worn as an amulet, it brings fame and long 
life. It prevents miscarriage when hung on the arm, and eases childbirth 
when worn on the thigh. Sleep with a bloodstone under your pillow to 
have dreams of the future. 


BOAR—the tooth of the boar is worn as an amulet for fertility, good 
fortune, and against the evil eye. It is especially good for the protection 
of pregnant women. Stones from the boar powdered and drunk in a 
potion arouse lust. 


BRASS—brass worn as an amulet or placed in or incorporated into a house 
keeps away evil spirits and witches. 


BRYONY (or Snake Grape)—a tendril-bearing, flowering vine with 
grapelike fruit. Its root, worn around the neck, cures convulsions and 
epilepsy. Juice of the leaves of the herb mixed with an equal quantity of 
white wine, given to drink, for seven days makes broken bones heal. The 
leaves applied to the skin keep one sober, bring pleasure, and reveal 
secrets. 


CAMEL—the dung of a camel bummed and mixed with oil stops the loss of 
hair. Suffumigated, it is conducive to the settling of disputes. The brain of 
the camel mixed with oil of roses and applied to the head and body cures 
falling sickness. Its milk is mixed with honey in Arabian love potions. 


CAPER—the bud of a Mediterranean shrub, sometimes used in love 
potions. A man who has been given a potion that makes him impotent 
can cure himself by eating capers. 


CARAWAY—chew the seeds of the caraway plant to obtain the one you 
desire, or as an aphrodisiac. Also, chew them to relieve stomach 
disorders. 


CARBUNCLE—a red gem, usually a garnet, of round shape, that prevents 
poisoning when worn as an amulet. The carbuncle also hinders lust, 
sadness, and bad dreams. It keeps the bearer healthy, but if he does 
become ill, the stone will fade. 


CARNELIAN—a reddish chalcedony that is worn in a ring for happiness 
and good luck. Applied to a wound, the carnelian stops the bleeding. It 
also makes the wearer calm, generous, and friendly. 


CARROT—the carrot is used in love potions and was considered by the 
ancient Greeks to be a powerful aphrodisiac. Taken in wine, it helps 
conception. 


CASTOR—the stone of the beaver, called Castor, hinders conception when 
powdered and drunk in a potion with the ear wax of a mule. Used in an 
ointment, it cures diseases of the nerves. The brownish secretion from the 
glands in the groin of the beaver is also called castor. It is used in 
perfume and in love and fertility charms. 


CAT—the cat was a common domestic familiar of witches, and its hair, 
eyes, blood, and organs were used in many charms and potions. The 
brain of a cat is used in love charms. The dung mixed with oil of lilies 
cures fever. Putting a live cat on someone suffering from convulsions, 
epilepsy, or fainting will cure him. 


CAT, BLACK—a black cat has much magical energy, especially for the 
working of black magic. Its blood, however, cures many diseases, among 
them erysipelas. To become invisible, boil a black cat alive, then take the 
bones one by one and hold each in your mouth in front of a mirror. When 
one is not reflected in the mirror, you have found the bone that will make 
you invisible when you carry it. Rub the tail of a black cat over your eye 
to cure a Sty. 


CATNIP (or Catmint)—an herb of the mint family which cures women of 
hysteria and fits when it is dried and given in a potion. Drink the juice of 
catnip in wine to heal bruises. 


CAUL—part of the fetal membrane that is sometimes attached to a 
newborn child. It is considered good luck to be born with a caul, and it 
should be preserved in some form as an amulet. Anyone who buys a caul 
will be fortunate and escape dangers. A blackish caul is a bad omen; a 
reddish one, very good. The caul changes state with the health of him 
who was born with it It preserves from drowning, and confers eloquence 
upon the bearer. Soldiers believed it would make them invulnerable. 


CAY ENNE—hot pepper which prevents intoxication when taken in a drink. 


CELANDINE—a yellow-flowered plant of the poppy family under the 
influence of the sun and used in solary charms. Celandine is used in 
charms and amulets to prevent one from being imprisoned. Its juice is 
given in potions for jaundice and applied to warts to remove them. 


CELONITIS—a stone of a tortoise. On the first day of the new moon, place 
it under your tongue; for fifteen days you will be able to see the future for 
half a day: from sunrise to sunset if the moon is waxing, from sunset to 
sunrise, when it is waning. 


CHALCEDONY—a pale, translucent quartz, sometimes milky white. He 
who wears it will be lucky in law and love, energetic, strong, and free of 
melancholy, illusion, and evil spirits. In Italy white chalcedony is made 
into white beads that increase a woman’s milk. 


CHAMELEON—a lizard that changes its skin. Burn its liver on a rooftop to 
raise a tempest. “If the tongue of the chameleon be taken alive, it 
conduces to good success in trials, and likewise to women in labour; but 
it must be hung up on some part of the house, otherwise, if brought into 
the house, it might be dangerous.”® Eat the liver to hinder a love charm 
placed upon you. 


CHELIDONIUS—stone from a swallow. The chelidonius may be red or 
black. Wrapped in linen cloth and bound under the left armpit, it protects 
from madness and disease and improves the memory. 


CHERVIL—an herb of the parsley family. It cures asthma and lung disease 
when boiled in whey, strained and drunk in the morning. Apply the 
bruised leaves to swellings and bruises to heal them. 


CHICKEN—to stop a tempest, throw a black chicken into the air. See 
Cock; Hen. 


CHICORY—+to obtain the friendship of the great, anoint your body with the 
juice of this herb. 


CHRYSOLITE—-yellow or greenish transparent variety of magnesium iron 
silicate which prevents insanity when worn as an amulet. If you bore a 
hole in the stone and fill it with hairs from the mane of an ass and wear it 
on the left arm, you will be free from melancholy, foolishness, and fear. 
Or you may wear it set in gold. It also prevents asthma and lung disease 
when powdered and taken internally. 


CHRYSOPRASE—a green chalcedony that is worn as an amulet for 
happiness and to strengthen the eyes. 


CINQUEFOIL (or Pentaphyllon)—a plant of the genus Potentilla with five- 
lobed leaves. Cinquefoil is ruled by Mercury. Worn as an amulet, it 
brings eloquence in seeking political favors. Its root boiled in vinegar and 
applied to affected area cures swellings, lumps, knots, sores, and itches. 
Hold juice of cinquefoil in your mouth to cure toothache or soreness of 
gums. It protects one from witchcraft when worn in an amulet, and 
protects a house when hung in the entry. 


CIVET CAT—small, catlike mammal whose eyes are said to induce fear 
and hypnosis and are often used in witches’ ointments and potions. It 
“makes any animal that it hath looked upon to stand still, to be amazed, 
and not able to move itself.”2 Touch doorposts with its blood to prevent 
sorceries and enchantments. Wear the straight gut of the civet around 
your left arm to make women follow you around. Wear its skin for 
protection. The civet cat secretes a yellow, pungent substance that is used 
in fumigations, ointments, and love potions. 


CLOVE PINK—a pink that has a scent similar to cloves. One ounce of the 
petals steeped in a pint of water strengthens the heart and nerves and 
cures fever. 


COCK—nmost parts of the cock are used in love charms and potions. 
Feathers from its tail were used by Romans to open locks. They also 
ward off witchcraft and the evil eye. To cure insanity, burn a cock alive. 
Although cocks are generally antidemonic, the black cock is sometimes 
considered the Devil’s bird. See Alectorius. 


CORAL—stone, usually yellowish red or pink, made from the skeleton 
secreted by certain marine animals. Worn as an amulet, coral prevents 
witchcraft, evil eye, poisoning (and storms). It preserves the bearer from 
his own foolishness. It also is worn against consumption and stomach 
pain and epilepsy. Red coral loses color when its owner is ill. 


CORIANDER—a plant, Coriandrum sativum, the seeds of which are used 
in charms and recipes against disease and headache. Coriander is also 
used in love potions. 


CORPSE—almost any object that has had contact with a corpse can be used 
in charms and recipes; paradoxically such objects are often used in love 
spells. Especially efficacious are the garments of a corpse or a candle that 
burned before it. The tooth of a dead man, when fumed, cures impotence. 
Parts of the body itself are even more effective. 


COW—the gall of the cow beautifies the face when applied to it, and 
removes corns. When the dung is suffumigated under the chair of a 


woman in labor, the birth is easy. Made into a plaster, the dung cures 
epilepsy, gout, and diseases of the spleen. 


CRAB—the claws of the crab are a fertility charm and are worn to ward off 
the evil eye. When worn around the neck they cure eye disease. Broken 
crab shell mixed in the food or drink of a former lover will harm his 
marriage. 


CROW-—the gall of a crow will cure a man of impotence when applied to 
his body or induce fear when administered in a potion. The eye of the 
crow excites lust when buried under one’s bed. To preserve harmony 
between a couple, the man should carry the heart of a male crow and the 
woman that of a female. Beaten with the blood of the crow, and drunk for 
nine days, the heart cures epilepsy. 


CRYSTAL—a transparent mineral, once thought to be hardened water. 
Balls made of crystal are used in divination, and smaller crystal balls, 
worn as amulets, prevent wasting diseases, witchcraft, and the casting of 
the evil eye. 


CUCUMBER—when eaten, or used in a potion, the cucumber hinders lust. 


CYCLAMEN—a flowered herb of the genus Cyclamen, which makes one 
drunk when added to his wine. Its root is used in love potions. 


DAFFODIL—yellow flower occasionally used in love potions. The root is 
bruised and applied to fresh wounds and to strains and bruises to heal 
them, to relieve the pain and swelling. 


DARBHA GRASS (or Kusa)—a grass of India used in charms and potions 
to appease anger. 


DEADLY NIGHTSHADE—see Belladonna. 


DEER—parts of the deer, especially the genitals, are frequently used in love 
potions. The gall of the deer mixed with honey causes conception when 
anointed on the genitals. See Roebuck. 


DIAMOND—a brilliant gem that may be used in an amulet to procure fame 
and fortune and prevent witchcraft. Because of its hardness it also 
endows the bearer with strength and invulnerability and brings victory 
when worn on the left arm. The diamond is a talisman for reconciling 
husbands and wives who have quarreled. Fastened to the left arm 
touching the skin, it keeps away “nocturnal tears.” “If any man put a 
Diamond under the head of a woman sleeping, she manifesteth if she be 
an adulteress, for if it be so, she leapeth back out of the bed afraid, and if 
not, she embraceth her husband with great love.”® 


DILL—an herb, Anethum graveolens, with leaves and seeds that may both 
be used in love potions and recipes. To cure hiccoughs, boil dill in wine, 
then tie it in a cloth and smell it. With salt it is protective against 
witchcraft when carried, hung, or scattered. 


DOG—the dried dung of a puppy powdered and administered in a potion 
cures jaundice. Mixed with oil of roses it cures ulcers. The fat of a puppy 
is an ingredient of some elixirs and ointments to preserve health. The 
black dog is a symbol of evil and is often considered an animal of the 
Devil. However, its gall made into a perfume will prevent witchcraft and 
keep away evil spirits when anointed on the walls of a house. To win a 
man’s love, dry the liver of a bitch and add it to his drink. 


DRAGON—the dragon swallowing his tail is a symbol of the work of 
alchemy and of the renewal of life. In China, amulets in the form of a 
dragon are worn for good fortune, long life, and marital happiness. 


DRAGON’S BLOOD—a red resin used in recipes and in love potions and 
potions against disease. Burn it to bring back a lost love. 


EAGLE—almost all parts of the eagle’s body have magic virtue. The right 
eye, tied in a clean cloth and held in the left hand, brings favor and 
friendship. The kidneys arouse lust when dried and steeped and made 
into a sauce used in meat or drink. Carry with you a feather of its right 
wing to become rich and friendly. See Aetites. 


EEL—the skin of the eel cures hydrophobia when worn around the limbs, 
cramp or pain when tied around the knee, and rheumatism when placed 


on the chest. To bring the dead back to life, leave an eel to die out of 
water, then steep in vinegar and the blood of a vulture, and bury it under 
some dung. Eat the fresh heart of an eel to foretell the future. Anoint 
yourself with fresh oil of eel when you feel weak. 


EGG—the egg is used extensively in fertility charms and potions. Witches 
use eggshells as cups and pots and will steal broken shells for this 
purpose if you fail to destroy them. The yolk of a freshly laid egg cures 
dysentery when mixed with brandy and drunk. 


ELDER—tree that bears white, distasteful-smelling flowers and black or 
deep red berries. The elder is associated with death and with witches. 
However, its berries may be used in charms and amulets against 
witchcraft if they are gathered on St. John's Eve. Many magical cures are 
performed with the elder. The bark is used in a salt-water solution to 
bathe swollen or diseased feet, and the leaves, bruised, in a plaster for 
colds. An elder twig cut into nine pieces and worn as a necklace is a 
remedy for epilepsy. If it falls and touches the ground, it must be burned 
and a new necklace made. “Make powder of the flowers of elder, 
gathered on Midsummer’s Day, being before well-dried, and use a 
spoonfull thereof in a good draught of borage-water, morning and 
evening, first and last, for the space of a month: it will make you seem 
young a great while.”2 


ELEOSELINUM—see Parsley. 


ELM—a tree with bark that is used in magical recipes against diseases. The 
inner bark boiled in water is used as a gargle for sore throat. “The roots 
of the elm boiled for a long time in water and the fat arising on the top, 
clean skimmed off, and the place anointed with it that is brown bald, and 
the hair fallen away, will quickly restore it again.” 12 


EMERALD—a green beryl worn as an amulet against lust. An emerald 
amulet brings the wearer wealth, good fortune, and the ability to foretell 
the future. It banishes evil spirits and insects, aids labor, and reveals a 
lover’s unfaithfulness. 


EUPHORBIA—a poisonous plant of the genus Euphorbia used in 
ointments and potions of witches. Euphorbia is under the rule of Mars 
and is used in fumes, charms, and potions for the working of the Martial 
magic, usually for death and destruction. 


EYEBRIGHT—herb of the genus Euphrasia. Its juice or distilled water 
taken in white wine improves a poor memory and weak eyes. 


FENNEL—a yellow-flowered plant with seeds that are used in charms and 
recipes to keep away evil spirits. The juice of the fennel taken directly in 
the mouth is a cure for falling sickness. Drink water in which its seeds 
were boiled to take away hiccoughs. “Both leaves, seeds, and roots 
thereof are much used in drink or broth to make people more spare and 
lean that are too fat.”14 Leaves or seeds boiled in barley water and drunk 
increase a mother’s milk. 


FERN—there are two varieties of fem, male and female. The female is 
higher, with fewer leaves than the male. The seed of the male fern is used 
in love potions. The seed of the female fern can be worn to make one 
invisible. It should be gathered on Midsummer’s Eve between eleven and 
twelve noon. 


FIRE—magic ceremonies are always performed with fire since it drives off 
demons and evil spirits, or at least keeps them a safe distance away. Even 
in ceremonies of black magic, the fire helps the magician to keep the 
spirits under his control. 


FISH—the heart and liver of a fish burned upon coals will banish evil 
spirits. The fish is a Buddhist symbol to increase wealth. 


FLEABANE—an herb believed to drive away fleas. Its seed strewed among 
sheets causes chastity. 


FLINT—an extremely hard stone used in striking fire. The flint worn as an 
amulet keeps away incubi and other evil spirits. A flint amulet with a 
hole in it keeps away nightmares. Cast flint stones behind your back 
toward the west to bring rain. 


FLITTER MOUSE—see Bat. 


FOX—the right testicle of a fox dried and powdered is used in a love potion 
for women; the left, for men. Its kidneys arouse when eaten or drunk. 
The liver cures asthma when drunk in wine, and the lungs, roasted and 
eaten, cure other difficulties in breathing. To make an amulet against 
swelling, cut the tusk off a live fox and release him. Then wrap the tusk 
in fawn skin. 


FRANKINCENSE—a gum resin used in incense and perfume. It is ruled by 
the sun and Saturn and is used in their fumes. Frankincense keeps away 
witches when hung in the entry of a house. White frankincense mixed 
with white wine is good for the brain and the stomach. 


FROG—various parts of the frog are frequent ingredients in many magic 
potions and recipes. After a green frog is eaten by ants, a bone from the 
left side is a charm for love and that on the right side, for hate. Since 
some say the reverse, one should be cautious in experimenting with frog 
bones. Reginald Scot gives another method for causing love and hate by 
frog bones: “...a frog's bone the flesh being eaten off round with Ants 
whereof some will swim and some will sink those that sink being hanged 
up with a white linen doth engendreth love; but if a man be touched 
therewith hate is bred thereby.”/4 The ashes of baby frogs mixed with tar 
are applied to the head to cure falling hair, and the eyes of a frog cure 
blindness. Also “if one cut its Tongue out, and let it go again alive, and 
make a superscription upon the Tongue thus, XV Vox. chuoch, coja M H 
yogi edammoth, and shall lay it privately upon a woman as she is asleep, 
the woman will tell whatever she has done all her life time.”/2 The rubeta 
frog causes people to become silent. 


GALACTITE—a stone, probably a nitrate of lime which when either 
dissolved in water or powdered and mixed with water appears milky. 
Taken in a potion it increases the flow of a woman’s milk and will also 
develop her breasts. 


GARLIC—since classical times and probably earlier, garlic has been a 
powerful talisman against witchcraft, demons, and the evil eye. It is often 
hung over the door of a house for this purpose, or, bitten, sailors consider 


it protection from shipwreck. Garlic is used in potions and worn around 
the neck to cure asthma and colds. “In men oppressed by melancholy, it 
will attenuate the humor, and send up strong fancies, and as many strange 
visions to the head; therefore let it be taken inwardly with great 
moderation; outwardly it may be used more freely.”4 Takes away skin 
spots and blemishes. 


GARNET—a deep red gem that brings the wearer happiness but hinders 
love. See Carbuncle. 


GINSENG—a Chinese herb, bearing red berries, the root of which is 
considered a powerful aphrodisiac when taken in love potions or recipes. 
Ginseng root is also used in recipes to cure inflammation. 


GLADIOLUS—a flower that has two roots, one above the other. “If 
therefore you give the upper Root to any one mixt in Wine, to drink, he 
will erect: But if any one drink the lower it will do the contrary, and he 
will be without seed.” 


GOAT—many parts of the goat have intense power to produce lust and 
fertility. The semen of the goat anointed on the penis and its horn 
powdered and drunk in a potion are male aphrodisiacs (the latter can be 
quite dangerous). The blood of the she-goat, heated and eaten, cures 
dysentery and dropsy. Its fresh dung, boiled in old wine and applied in an 
ointment, cures swellings. 


GOLD—gold is ruled by the sun and used in preparation of amulets for 
procuring fame, fortune, and wealth. Gold is also conducive to long life 
when used in amulets. 


GOOFER DUST—an American voodoo term for graveyard dust. It is a 
deadly ingredient of charms and recipes to kill or harm enemies. 


GRAIN—to protect yourself against witchcraft, scatter grain around your 
sleeping place. The witch will not be able to count the grain and therefore 
will not be able to harm you. 


HARE—the hare was a popular familiar of witches in Scotland. The bone 
in the foot of a hare is worn or carried as a charm against cramp. Apply 
the fat of a hare to pull out a thorn in the flesh. Light it in a lamp to make 
the women who are present merry. Burn the ears and nails from the 
whole skin of a hare and administer the powder obtained in food or drink. 
The genitals of the hare are used in potions to arouse lust. 


HAWK—the hawk possesses the magical virtues of the eagle in somewhat 
less intensity. 


HELIOTROPE—see Bloodstone; Sunflower. 


HELLEBORE—a poisonous plant of the genus Hellebores used in fumes, 
recipes, and spells of Mars. Black hellebore is sniffed or taken in a potion 
for headache. Both green and black varieties are used in charms and 
recipes to cure insanity. Hellebore is also administered in potions against 
melancholy and love-sickness. Special precautions should be observed 
when gathering black hellebore. You should dress in white and pluck the 
plant with your right hand and, hiding the hand with your robe, transfer 
the plant to your left hand. 


HEMLOCK—a poisonous witch herb, Conicum maculatum, used 
frequently in flying ointments and other recipes. Hemlock is used in 
potions to hinder lust and destroy love. Carry hemlock with you to 
vanquish your enemies. 


HEN—a black hen is frequently offered by witches to the Devil and is 
generally considered a bird of evil omen. Feathers from a black hen are 
deadly when incorporated into a magical image or a witch’s ladder (see 
chapter on charms, spells, and incantations). A black hen may be used as 
a charm to learn the truth, if you have been robbed, fast for nine days in 
the company of a black hen, and the thief will be compelled to return 
your property. A split black hen applied to the soles of the feet cures 
headache and many other illnesses. 


HENBANE—a poisonous, narcotic herb of the Solanaceae family used by 
witches in potions and flying ointments. Henbane is a frequent ingredient 
of love potions. It is fumigated to evoke spirits. 


HERRING—herring is fumigated to produce magical visions: “If one put 
the head of a fresh herring upon the coals to fumigate and he will get 
upon the house in the night, he will think that all the stars are run into 

916 
one.”-2 


HIPPOMANES—small piece of flesh, usually black, on the head of a 
newborn foal, which the mother usually licks off. The mere touch of 
hippomanes arouses lust, as it also does when worn as an amulet. To win 
love, give it to the one you desire in his food or drink; it is especially 
powerful when mixed with your own blood. The term is also applied to 
“a venomous liquor issuing out of the share of a mare at the time she 
lusts after the horse.”1Z 


HOG—boil hog bristles to bring rain. The bladder, burned, powdered, and 
taken in a potion, enables one to control his urination. 


HORSE—the Devil sometimes appeared to witches at the Sabbat in the 
guise of a horse. Horses also served to carry witches to the Sabbat and 
occasionally as familiars. Horsehairs might be incorporated into magic 
images. The hoof of a horse is suffumigated to hasten birth. Mare’s milk 
is given to a woman without her knowledge to make her conceive. 


HOUSELEEK—a pink-flowered herb, Sempervivum tectorum, that grows 
on roofs and walls. The houseleek protects a house on which it grows 
from lightning. If it is placed on the roof, it will keep the house free from 
fire and its inhabitants from suffering burns. Its juice applied to forehead 
and temples eases headache and a tired brain. 


HYENA—the hair or whiskers of a hyena may be used in image magic or 
in spells of necromancy. However, skin from its forehead protects the 
bearer from fascination. To make men and dogs silent, carry the tongue 
of a hyena in your right shoe. Marrow from the hyena cures pains of back 
and loins when anointed on the spine. 


IRON—iron is used in amulets to drive away demons. 


JACINTH—a red-orange zircon which protects one from fascination when 
worn as an amulet around the neck. Deep yellow jacinth is taken ina 


potion to drive away melancholy and given to someone else to win his 
affection. As an amulet, it makes the bearer friendly, cheerful, alert, and 
successful in business and in gaining money. The jacinth changes color 
according to the weather. The stone is ruled by the sun. 


JADE—green mineral used in stones that are worn in China and in amulets 
for long life, good health, and to prevent misfortune. Powdered jade is 
taken in potions against asthma and diseases of the digestion. 


JASMINE—a shrub of the genus Jasminum with sweetsmelling flowers 
that are an excellent ingredient in love potions, 


JASPER—an opaque quartz, usually green, worn as an amulet against 
dysentery, nightmares, and hallucinations. 


JET—a deep black stone of coal, agate, or marble. Jet is fumigated to drive 
away hallucinations. In Ireland, it is said to have eight virtues: “When the 
thunder crashes, it will not harm man who carries this stone with him ... 
in whatsoever house it may be, no demon can stay therein ... no poison 
can injure the person who carries this stone with him ... if the man who 
is secretly possessed with the hateful fiend, take, in liquid, any portion of 
the shavings of the stone—then that which before was profoundly 
concealed, will soon be visible to him ... if the person who is afflicted 
with any disease take the stone in liquid, he will soon be well ... sorcery 
will not injure the man who carries it with him ... he who takes the stone 
in a potion will have so much the smoother body ... no bite of any kind 
of snake can injure him who takes this stone in liquid.” 8 


KNOT-GRASS—weed with nodes on its stems that strengthens and 
protects the eyes of one who carries it. Taken internally, its juice cures 
eye disease. Knot-grass should be gathered when the moon is waning. 


LAPIS LAZULI—a deep blue gem worm as an amulet to cure melancholy. 


LAPWING—swallow the heart of a lapwing while still warm to foretell the 
future. Wear its heart, eye, or brains around your neck against 
forgetfulness and for understanding. 


LAUREL—a small European evergreen whose leaves guard against 
epilepsy, lightning and demonic possession. 


LEAD—when used in an annulet or placed at the entrance to a house, lead 
is excellent protection from witchcraft and evil spirits. 


LEADWORT-—a plant with gray-colored leaves which, when placed in the 
mouth, cures headache or toothache with great speed. 


LEEK—a plant of the lily family, resembling the onion, that is a powerful 
ingredient in love potions. 


LETTUCE—lettuce may be used in love potions and recipes. However, you 
may eat it to alleviate lust. 


LION—for courage, gird yourself with thongs from the skin of a lion. 


LIVERWORT—nmosslike plant of the class Hepaticae that prevents 
hydrophobia when worn or carried. 


LIZARD—the brains and tails of lizards induce love when administered in 
potions. To make friendship fast, catch two lizards copulating, cut off 
their sexual organs, and drink them in a potion. To protect yourself from 
disease, wear around your neck the right hand of a lizard in a gold case 
upon which is written: ha. va. ba. Ga. h. 1. aulusare. The bones of lizards 
cure epilepsy when worn as amulets or powdered and drunk in potions. 


LOADSTONE (or Lodestone)—a variety of magnetite that attracts iron and 
is used as a test for truth or faithfulness: “Lay this stone under the head of 
a wife. If she be chaste, she will embrace her husband. If she be not 
chaste, she will fall forth of her bed.”!2 The loadstone can enable you to 
foretell the future and will endow you with divine inspiration and secret 
knowledge. If you ask it questions about the future, you will receive true 
answers. To cure yourself of disease, shake a loadstone in your hands. 
Worn as an amulet the loadstone reconciles lovers’ quarrels. Bound to the 
right arm or thigh of the woman it eases labor. 


LOTUS—Indian or Egyptian plant of the waterlily family used in love 
potions. Used in or engraved upon an amulet, the lotus keeps away the 
evil eye and brings success and good fortune. 


LUNGWORT—blue-flowered plant, Pulmonaria officinalis, that is steeped 
in water and drunk to cure asthma and other lung diseases, 


MANDRAKE (or Mandragora)—a narcotic, solanaceous herb, 
Mandragora officinarum, frequently used in love potions, spells, and 
ointments. The fleshy root of the mandrake, which is the part most often 
used in magic, resembles a human being. The plant is identified as 
female or male according to whether or not the root is forked (the forking 
represents the female number two). The male plant has a pleasing scent; 
the female, a repulsive odor. The berries, like the root, are narcotic, and 
either can be aphrodisiac, anesthetic, or fatal, depending upon the dose 
given. The mandrake is considered the deadliest of witch herbs because it 
cannot be obtained without risk of life. When pulled from the ground, the 
plant gives a terrible shriek that will kill or drive one mad. To avoid this, 
put a dog who has not been fed for an entire day on a long leash, lead 
him toward the plant, entice him to uproot it, and run for cover when he 
seems about to do so. You may also use a well-trained cock. A good 
place to find a mandrake is beneath a gallows. Mandrake root cures 
impotency when taken in a potion; however it may be used as a talisman 
to prevent pregnancy. When carefully kept and kindly treated, it will 
answer all your questions and cause money left near it to double 
overnight. The mandrake may be used in image magic to harm enemies. 
To preserve your mandrake, wash it every Friday evening with wine and 
keep it wrapped in white or red silk. 


MARIGOLD—a yellow-flowered plant ruled by the sun and used in fumes 
and potions to obtain solary influence. Powder its seeds and wear them in 
an amulet if you wish to catch a thief, or administer the powder in a 
potion to one whom you suspect. Put it under your head when you sleep 
if you wish to see him who robbed you. If it is put in a church where 
adulterous women are, they will not be able to enter the church until it is 
removed. Marigold seeds are used in potions to cure fever. 


MENSTRUAL BLOOD—although menstrual blood may occasionally be 
used in love potions, it is primarily associated with infertility. It will dull 
the edge of a knife, make plants barren, and turn new wine sour. It can 
cause impotency when given in a potion. 


MERCURY (or Quicksilver)—-silver-colored metallic element under the 
rule of the planet Mercury that was an important constituent of 
alchemical processes. Mercury was used in magic recipes against disease 
and the evil eye and was worn in amulets to prevent jaundice. 


METEORITE—stone or metal that has fallen to the earth from space and is 
worn as an amulet to protect the bearer from witchcraft, storms, disease, 
and accidents. 


MILK—aids the growth of hair, especially on the bald spot of a dog. 


MISTLETOE—parasitic plant with white berries that is used in love 
potions. To open a lock, insert a sprig of mistletoe in it. Wear it around 
your neck to keep away witches. Mistletoe is used to treat epilepsy. Water 
in which mistletoe has been steeped brings about procreation. 


MOLE—swallow the heart of a mole before the sun rises and you will 
know the future. Carry it with you to vanquish your enemies. To cure a 
toothache, wear a tooth pulled from a live mole. Drink its blood for 
anemia. Carry its feet in your purse to prevent want of money. 


MONK’S HOOD—see Aconite. 


MOONWORT (or Martagon)—a fern, Botrychium lunaria, with crescent- 
shaped leaflets, that is used in love potions or worn as an amulet to find 
enduring love. To open a lock, place in it a piece of moonwort. 
Moonwort also breaks chains. 


MUGWORT-—-a plant with leaves that turn toward the north, which when 
carried in the hand or shoe prevents weakness and tiredness. Pick it 
before sunrise, saying, “Tollam te artemsia, ne lassus sim in via. all 
Mugwort is used in potions and annulets to increase fertility and cure 
poisoning and disease. Carry mugwort with you in order to foretell the 


future. To bring spirits together, wipe a piece of clean steel with the juice 
of mugwort. 


MULE—the ear wax of a mule bound in mule skin is a contraceptive 
amulet. Give the ear wax to the woman in a potion to prevent conception 
for a long period of time. To break or hinder love charms, take a potion 
including dust in which a mule has lain. 


MULLEIN—a weed with coarse leaves and yellow flowers that is worn in 
amulets against witchcraft and sorcery. Sleep with it under your pillow or 
hang it over your door to keep away witches, demons, and nightmares. 
Carry it with you to keep away wild animals and enemies and to bring 
you courage. “The seed bruised and boiled in wine, and laid on any 
member that has been out of joint and is newly set, takes away all 
swelling and pain.” 


MUSK—strong-scented secretion of the male musk deer that is used in 
magical perfumes and is a powerful ingredient in love potions. 


MYRRH—fragrant resin from plants of the genus Commiphora that is used 
in fumigations, especially to drive away evil spirits. To win love, perfume 
yourself with myrrh. 


MYRTLE—evergreen shrub with white flowers that has been sacred to 
Venus since ancient times and is ruled by the planet Venus. Myrtle is a 
frequent ingredient in love potions. 


NETTLE—a plant with stinging hairs that is used in potions as an 
aphrodisiac. Nettles are used in recipes to cure many diseases and are 
worn in amulets against evil spirits. Place nettles on a beer barrel to 
improve the flavor. 


NEW T—a salamander or other small, tailed animal, the brains of which are 
used in love potions. 


NIGHTINGALE—swallow its heart with honey and carry the heart and 
tongue with you to make others delight to listen to you. Carry the eyes of 
the nightingale to keep you awake. 


NIGHTSHADE—see Belladonna; Henbane; Mandrake. 


OIL—put holy oil upon your lips to make them irresistible to men who kiss 
you. 


ONION—since ancient times onion has been a powerful charm against 
witchcraft and the evil eye when worn, carried, or hung in the entrance of 
a house. Onion also protects the bearer from drunkenness and cures his 
colds. Onion juice with vinegar removes skin blemishes. 


ORANGE—drink orange peel in a potion to preserve yourself from 
drunkenness. 


OSTRICH—the stone from the gizzard of the ostrich arouses lust, cures 
impotence, and enables one to make love with great power when 
powdered and taken in a potion or hung around the neck. Worn as an 
amulet, the stone also aids digestion. 


OWL—wear the daw of an owl as an amulet for good luck. If you tie the 
severed head of an owl in a black cloth and touch it to someone’s left 
arm, he will remain awake. 


OX—hang the gall of an ox over your bed to have wonderful dreams, 


PARSLEY (or Eleoselinum)—herb that is used in potions for love and 
fertility, and in witches’ ointments. 


PARTRIDGE—to improve your memory, grease your temples with the gall 
of a partridge. 


PEACH—peach kernels “bruised and boiled until they become thick, and 
applied unto the head, it makes the hair grow upon the bald places or 
where it is too thin.”24 


PEACOCK—“By the stone that is in the head of a peacock, given in drink 
with your own sweat, you may obtain any virgin you have a mind to.”22 


PEARL—wear the pearl as an amulet for longevity and good fortune. 


PEBBLE—tiny stones or pebbles may be scattered on the floor to keep 
away witches. To rid yourself of warts, bury as many pebbles as you have 
warts. Kidney-shaped pebbles, especially black, are potent charms for 
health and fortune, and against the evil eye. 


PEON Y—flowered plant of the genus Paeonia that is worn as an amulet 
against incubi, epilepsy, and fever. To cure epilepsy, cut the root of the 
peony into square pieces and hang them around the neck. Change them as 
they dry out. Take the powdered root internally to cure nervous diseases. 
To cure a fit of madness, touch a peony to the afflicted person, and have 
him carry it with him afterward to prevent recurrence. Fumigate the root, 
wear it, or powder it and take it in a potion to keep away evil spirits. 
Peonies have two kinds of seeds, open and closed. “That a woman may 
conceive: If therefore a woman do not retain the Man’s seed and would 
conceive, let her be girt with the close seeds of the Divine Herb, tying it 
in a Linen cloth died [sic] of seven colours ... But if she have no mind to 
conceive, let her girt herself with the open seeds, and the wax of a mule’s 
ear, as long as she please.”24 


PEPPER—the spice pepper cures wounds from stabs or blows, but also 
Starts quarrels. 


PHOENIX—immortal bird said to live 500 years, to then set fire to itself, 
and rise again. The image of the phoenix is worn as an amulet for long 
life, happiness, justice, and faithfulness. 


PIG—the pig is ruled by Venus and is a powerful fertility symbol. Amulets 
in the shape of a pig or with pigs carved on them are worn for good 
fortune, fertility, and against the evil eye. 


PIGEON— split a live pigeon and apply it to the soles of the feet to cure 
convulsions. 


PURSLANE—a trailing herb with yellow flowers. Put it in your bed to 
prevent bad dreams. 


QUAIL—parts of the quail are used in amulets or potions to bring illusion 
or hallucination. “Dissolve the Eyes of the Quail ... with a little water in 


a Glass-Vessel for seven dayes, then add a little Oyl: Put a little of this in 
the Candle, or only anoint a Rag, and light in among the Company, and 
they will look upon themselves like Devils on Fire, so that every one will 


run away.”22 The quail is sometimes sacrificed to the Devil. 


RABBIT—the ears of a rabbit cure insomnia when placed under the pillow 
of the sleepless one without his knowledge. A forepaw of the rabbit 
brings good luck. Some say the hind foot protects against evil, and others 
that it brings evil. 


RADISH—to break a spell cast on you, fast overnight and in the morning 
eat the root of a radish. The spell will be ineffective all day. Hold wild 
radishes in your mouth to conquer the enemy. 


REMORA—small fish of the family Echeneidae that may be used in Jove 
potions. 


RHINOCEROS—the horn of the rhinoceros is powdered and used as an 
aphrodisiac in Africa. 


ROEBUCK—the male roe deer, parts of which are quite effective in 
potions for love and fertility. See chapter on potions. 


ROSEMARY—evergreen shrub producing a fragrant oil that is an 
ingredient in potions to preserve love and improve the mind and memory. 
A piece of rosemary may be worn as an amulet to drive away evil spirits 
or placed over the bed to keep away nightmares. 


ROWAN —a mountain ash with red berries that is hung over the entrance of 
a house to protect it from demons and witches. Wear the berries in a 
necklace to prevent witchcraft and the evil eye. 


RUBY—a crimson-colored precious stone worn as an amulet against 
poison and sadness. The ruby becomes dark or cloudy when evil 
threatens. 


RUE—an herb, Ruta graveolens, with yellow flowers, the leaves of which 
are steeped in boiling water and taken to cure disease of the nerves. Place 


fresh leaves of rue on your head to relieve headache. When eaten, the 
leaves hinder lust. Rue worn around the neck protects from witchcraft. 


SAFFRON—orange-yellow dried stigmas of the flowered plant Crocus 
sativus that are ruled by the sun and are powerful ingredients in solary 
recipes and spells. Take saffron in a potion to cure jaundice. Bathe sore 
eyes in saffron mixed with well water. 


SAGE—an herb, Salvia officinalis, the leaves of which are used in potions 
and recipes against nervous diseases. Squeeze juice from sage leaves into 
the mouth of one suffering a fit of epilepsy. 


SAINT JOHN’S WORT (or Hypericum)—plant with orange-yellow 
flowers that is used as a charm against witches and demons. On St. 
John’s Eve, or midsummer (June 23), it is used by young girls in 
divination to discover their future husbands. 


SALAMANDER—a small, tailed amphibian, the heart of which keeps a 
woman from conceiving and from menstruating when carried about her 
knees. 


SALT—ordinary salt is among the most powerful preventives of witchcraft 
and the evil eye. Witches cannot eat food containing salt. Salt is worn in 
amulets for good health and longevity. It lengthens and strengthens love 
spells and potions. 


SAPPHIRE—a blue variety of corundum which is worn as an amulet to 
prevent fever, excessive perspiration, eye disease, injury, and poison. It 
also brings the bearer good health, courage, and peace of mind, and 
protects him from envy, treachery, and captivity. 


SATYR ORCHID—a green flowered plant, Coeloglossum bracteatum, 
drunk or eaten as an aphrodisiac, 


SATY RION—plant, possibly vervain, with a root shaped like the male 
sexual organ, that was used in potions for love and potency. “For spent 
and barren women, and for coition, and for such as have a watery and 
thin seed, and which cannot conceive, and such as are withered and dry: 


For this is arid and delectable and gives conception. If before coition you 
strew it on the virile member, anointed with Honey, the woman will be 
debilitated beyond measure. And if the woman be so anointed, the 
Intenseness of the Act will be great.”2° 


SEA-COW—tither a hippopotamus or an aquatic mammal of the order 
Sirenia, the fat of which is conducive to joyful lovemaking when mixed 
with honey and anointed on the sexual organs of the couple. Worn as an 
amulet, the stone from the right temple of the sea-cow causes erection; 
the stone from the left temple hinders it. 


SEAL—drink the brain of the seal in a potion to drive away evil spirits, and 
the heart to bring good luck. Wear the right eye in an amulet to attain 
good fortune, power, and a pleasing disposition. Carry the nails from its 
paws to prevent witchcraft and betrayal. Carry its tongue in your shoe to 
assure victory. To cure pain of abdomen and kidneys, add the hairs of a 
seal to an ointment and rub it on the afflicted part. 


SERPENT—throughout the world, the serpent is a powerful magic symbol. 
It stands for wisdom and the knowledge of good and evil that is the 
prerequisite of magic power. The tree of life of the Cabala is often 
represented with a serpent twining through its branches. The serpent also 
represents creation—human and divine, physical and spiritual. The 
serpent swallowing its tail symbolizes the great work of alchemy, the 
transformation of something into a higher form that is inherent within it. 
Amulets shaped like serpents or partially composed of serpent bring the 
bearer wisdom and long life. Wear the teeth to prevent and cure 
toothache. They also aid a child’s teething. The eyes, worn around the 
neck, cure eye disease. The skin, worn around the waist, cures 
rheumatism. To make snakes appear, light a lamp made of serpents’ 
skins. A snake will run after you if you are clothed, but will flee if you 
are naked. 


SHEEP—fresh liver of sheep beautifies a woman when applied to her face. 
To keep from drunkenness, eat its lungs after fasting. 


SKULL—part of a skull or skeleton or an object shaped like a skull is a 
potent talisman against the evil eye. To cure epilepsy, drink at midnight 


water from a spring out of the skull of someone who was murdered. 


SNAIL—the shells of snails are used in amulets for love, lust, and fertility, 
and against witchcraft and the evil eye. They are sometimes powdered 
and drunk in love potions. A stone from the snail’s head or shell aids 
childbirth and improves eyesight when powdered in wine and drunk. 


SOW—to cure a compulsive gambler, give him sow’s milk. SPARROW— 
the liver and heart of the sparrow are frequently ingredients of love 
potions. 


SPIDER—to prevent fever and flu wear a few spiders in a bag around your 
neck. To bring sleep to an insomniac, anoint his head with boiled spider. 
A spider caught while weaving upward is an especially good constituent 
of an amulet against disease. 


SPIT—spitting is a way of concentrating one’s magical energy and is 
therefore part of many charms, especially for preventing fascination and 
witchcraft. Spit in your right shoe every morning to prevent fascination. 
After urinating, spit in the toilet to protect yourself from witchcraft. For 
courage, swallow your own spit. Spitting without purpose is a waste of 
magic force and may expose one to malevolent spells by demons or 
enemies who capture this saliva. In working image magic, the saliva of 
the victim, usually from partially eaten food, strengthens the spell. 


STONE—to cure disease, affliction by nightmare, or bewitchment, hang a 
stone with a hole in it over the bed of the sufferer. Small stones that have 
natural holes in them are excellent amulets against disease and the evil 
eye. Stones shaped naturally like a couple embracing are charms to bring 
love. Bathe a bruise or concussion with water into which a stone heated 
red-hot was thrown. 


STRAW—dolls used in image magic are often made partially or wholly of 
Straw. Straw is used in many charms to cause death, injury, impotency, 
and infertility. 


SUNFLOWER (or Heliotrope)—plant of the genus Helianthus with yellow 
flowers that is ruled by the sun, and because of its circular, rayed shape, 


symbolizes the sun. It is a powerful charm against evil spirits. The seeds 
of the sunflower, when taken in a potion, make women fertile. If you 
sleep with a sunflower under your bed, you will learn the truth about 
whatever you wish. To become virtuous, anoint yourself with juice from 
the herb. 


SWALLOW-—¥swallow the whole, fresh heart of a swallow in order to 
foretell the future. Eat the heart, boiled in milk, to improve your memory. 
The heart may also be used in love charms. Ointment with a swallow’s 
feather in it is applied to secure universal love and affection. 


THISTLE—a prickly, purple-flowered plant. To cause hair to grow again, 
bathe the bald spot with thistle juice. 


THORN APPLE—a poisonous, solanaceous plant of the genus Datura used 
by witches in ointments and potions. 


THYME—a plant of the mint family, the fresh leaves of which are used in 
tea to treat asthma and other diseases of the lungs and nerves. 


TIGER—the whiskers of tigers arc used in potions for love and potency and 
in amulets to bring love, luck, and wealth. Its tooth is a talisman for good 
luck in gambling. 


TOAD—the magical essence of the toad is hateful and poisonous, and parts 
of the animal are therefore used extensively in charms of necromancy 
and against enemies. The toad may be magically identified with or 
baptized in the name of an enemy and then tortured or killed. The enemy 
will suffer corresponding pain. See Toadstone. 


TOADSTONE—a stone from a toad or sometimes from another animal. 
The toad may be induced to vomit it, or it may be obtained from the 
animal's head. One method is to hang the toad by its legs from the 
chimney and catch what comes out of its mouth in a dish of yellow wax. 
The toadstone acts as an antidote and detector of poisons, growing hot in 
their presence. The most efficient method of detection is to wear the 
toadstone in a ring, so that it touches the skin. The toadstone prevents 
boats from sinking and houses from burning. 


TOPAZ—a gem of silicate of aluminum worn as an amulet for wisdom, 
wealth, and beauty, and against lust and greed. A topaz amulet also cures 
insanity. 


TURQUOISE—blue-green stone worn as an amulet for good fortune and 
against the evil eye. Turquoise changes color according to the health of 
its owner. It protects the owner from falls and from enmity. It brings 
together a man and wife who have quarreled. 


TURTLE—amulets in the shape of or containing parts of the tortoise are 
conducive to longevity, and the fertility of women. But the heart taken in 
a potion hinders lust. 


TURTLEDOVE—the heart of the turtledove is powdered and administered 
in love potions. Blood from its cut throat cures falling sickness. 


URINE—rine is used in potions and on wafers in Black Masses, and in 
charms against enemies. To cure as illness, take urine from the sick 
person early in the morning and heat it gently for nine days until it 
evaporates. To prevent charms, dip your feet in urine in the morning. 


VERBENA—see Vervain. 


VERVAIN (or Verbena, the name of the genus of the plant, or Pisterion)— 
also called the herb of Venus, vervain is used in potions for love and 
fertility. Worn as an amulet, a sprig of vervain makes the bearer 
courageous and lucky and cures fever and poisoning. When worn or hung 
about the house, it prevents witchcraft and the casting of the evil eye. For 
this purpose, gather the herb at midsummer. One who sleeps with vervain 
near will be free of nightmares. Carry vervain with you to keep dogs 
from barking at you. Placed in the house or buried in one’s fields, it will 
make his wealth or possessions increase. The bruised root of vervain 
worn around the neck prevents diseases of the head. Gather the plant at 
the rising of the dog star when neither sun nor moon is out. “If a man 
gathers vervain the first day of the new moon, before sun rising, and 
drink the juice thereof, it will make him to avoid lust for seven years.” 
See Satyrion. 


VULTURE—the vulture has magical virtues similar to those of the eagle 
(q.v.), but not so intense. 


WATER—bathing in running water cures those who have been changed 
into animals by witches. Water running south is good for use in healing 
charms. Running water scooped up with the left hand while standing 
against the current will make hair grow when applied to the head. To cure 
a fit of ague, taste water in an earthen vessel that was gathered in equal 
quantities from three ponds of the same size. 


WATERCRESS—to remove freckles, pimples, or spots, bruise leaves of the 
herb and apply to the face at night and wash off in morning. Mix juice of 
watercress with vinegar and bathe the forehead of one who is tired. 


WATERLILY—an aquatic plant of the genus Nymphaea that hinders lust 
and love when eaten or drunk in a potion. The distilled water of the 
flowers clears away freckles, spots, and sunburn. 


WEASEL—the tongue of the weasel dried and worn in a shoe will protect 
one from his enemies. Swallow the warm heart of the weasel to learn the 
future. To prevent conception, carry the left testicle of a weasel wrapped 
in mule’s skin, on which the following is written: In ora. i. idacvia. i. a 
viij. i rayo. j. vol. koox 3. i coochi.28 


WOLF—arinking the blood of a wolf will drive one mad. The eyes, 
administered in a potion, induce fear. Wear its right eye as an amulet to 
bring victory and protection from enemies. The hair at the bottom of the 
wolf’s tail is used in love charms and potions. Carry its eye and the first 
joint of the tail in a golden container for wealth, power, fame, friendship, 
and the love of women. The eyetooth of the wolf, worn around the neck, 
will cure madness, hallucination, and affliction by nightmares. Fresh skin 
of wolf, worn around the body, will prevent attacks of epilepsy. To 
prevent witchcraft, hang the head of a wolf on your door. “Take wolf’s 
dung and carry it in your pocket that it may take the heat of your body 
and it will make any mad Bull, or any other Cattel of the kinde to fly 
from you ...”22 To keep a woman faithful, burn hairs and genitals of a 
wolf and give them to her in a potion. 


WOLF’S BANE—see Aconite. 
WOOD-BETONY—see Betony. 


WOOL—to keep away witchcraft and disease, anoint yourself with black 
wool and butter. During an illness, put black wool in your ears to prevent 
deafness. 


1 Albertus Magnus, The Booke of Secretes, London, c. 1560. 


< Lemmius, “Occult Miracles of Nature”, in John Brand, Popular Antiquities of Great Britain, 
London, 1905. 


3 Cyranus, The Magick of Kirani, King of Persia, London, 1685. 
4 «Secrets of Alexis of Piedmont”, in Brand, op. cit. 

2 Cyranus, op. cit. 

8 Francis Barrett, The Magus, London, 1801. 

é Henry Cornelius Agrippa von Nettesheim, The Philosophy of Natural Magic, Chicago, 1913. 
8 Albertus Magnus, op. cit. 

3 Brand, op. cit. 

10 Nicholas Culpepper, The English Physician, London, 1826. 
1 Tid. 

12 Reginald Scot, The Discoverie of Witchcraft, London. 1655. 
13 Cyranus, op. cit. 

14 Culpepper, op. cit. 

15 Cyranus, op. cit. 

16 Cyranus, op. cit. 

i Barrett, op. cit. 


18 Felix Grendon, The Anglo-Saxon Charms, New York, 1909. 


19 Albertus Magnus, Egyptian Secrets, U.S.A., n.d. 
20 Grendon, op. cit. 

21 Culpepper, op. cit. 

22 Culpepper, op. cit. 

23 Cyranus, op. cit. 

24 Ibid. 

29 Ibid. 

26 Ibid. 

27 Brand, op. cit. 

28 Cyranus, op. cit. 


29 Thomas Ady, A Candle in the Dark, London, 1656. 


MAGIC POTIONS 


Included here are potions, ointments, and other recipes arranged 
according to purpose. It is generally evident which recipes are potentially 
poisonous or dangerous. All of them, however, should be used with caution. 


For Love 


Put a frog in an anthill. Powder the skeleton obtained, mix it with bat 
blood and dried flies, and make it into tiny buns. Add them to the food of 
one you want. 


Elecampane, vervain, mistletoe berries. Dry them, beat them to a powder, 
and add to wine. 


Bake a turtledove, then powder it and add it to the wine of the woman 
you desire. 


For Potency and Fertility 


For erection 


4 oz. rocket seed; 1 oz. pepper: honey. “Morning and night take as much as 
you can take up with two fingers. But if a man be grown old and have a 
loose and hanging member, he shall do this”: 16 oz. rocket seed; 8 oz. 


cumin; 4 oz. pepper; 2 oz. seed of purslane. “Being bruised and made up 
with honey, let him take it morning and evening.” 


For conception 


“Tf therefore you would have conception to be strong and infallible ... 
satyrion seed 4 oz.; all the liquor of a roe’s gall, honey 3 oz.; mix and put it 
up into a glass vessel. And when there is occasion, give it to a young 
woman, when it is dry, and let her use coition.” To conceive a male, use the 
gall of a male roe, and the gall of a female to conceive a female. If the 
mixture is too dry, add honey. 4 


For Illusion 


To make a man imagine he is a bear 


“This is done by dissolving or boiling the brains and heart of that animal in 
new wine, and give anyone to drink out of the skull, and while the force of 
the draught operates he will fancy every living creature to be a bear like to 
himself; neither can anything divert or cure him until the fumes and virtue 
of the liquor are entirely expended, no other distemper being perceiveable 
in him.” 


“_..if it (century) be joined with the blood of a female lapwing, or black 
plover, and be put with oil in a lamp, all they that compass about, shall 
believe themselves to be witches, that one shall believe of another that his 
head is in heaven and his feet in earth ...” and if it be “put in the fire when 
the starres shine, it shall appear that the stars run on against each other and 


fight.”4 


“Take the gall of a male Cat and the fat of a Hen all white, and mix them 
together, anoint thy eyes, and thou shalt see it that others cannot see.”2 


“Anointed with a mixture of blood of a buck goat, vinegar and juice of 
fennel, a man will have wonderful and disturbing visions and expect to 
die.”® 

“ ,.a candle made of some Saturnine things, such as man’s fat and marrow, 
the fat of a black cat, with the brains of a crow or raven, which being 
extinguished in the mouth of a man lately dead, will afterwards, as often as 
it shines alone, bring great horror and fear upon the spectators about it.”2 


Remedies 


For madness 
Give mild honey and salt in a drink from a seashell before sunrise. 
For natural sleep 


Blend equal parts of oil of mace and rose salve; rub it on temples, neck, 
nostrils, pulse points, and soles of feet. 


Apply to forehead and temples lettuce juice mixed or boiled with oil of 
roses. 


To cure hysteria 


“Take dried chicken manure, grind it to powder, and give a pinch of it to the 
patient in a prune. It is a quick remedy.”® 


For epilepsy 


“Roots of peony being given with castor and smear with a menstrous 
cloth.”2 


Against gout 


Hermodactyllus (a species of colchicum), ginger, pepper, cumin seed, 
aniseed, scammony (an Asiatic twining plant). 


Plaster for child's stomach pains 


Hair of black dog burned to powder mixed with mother’s milk and child’s 
feces. 


To cure jaundice 


12 large earthworms, baked on a shovel and ground to powder, drunk in 
potion. (Somewhat poisonous effects have been noticed from this recipe.) 


For dysentery 
Take the yolk of a freshly laid egg with a glass of brandy. 
For inflammation 
9 handfuls of mountain moss dried to powder, take 9 pinches of it, and 9 
pinches of ashes from the hearth mixed with whey every Tuesday and 
Thursday. 


For warts, corns, and ruptures 


Put black snails in a pot, add salt, and bury it for nine days. Distill the 
mixture in a glass in the sun. 


To cure an enchanted sterile married person 
Rub the body with raven’s gall mixed with oil of sesame. 
For fits introduced by witchcraft 


“Take of Dogs Grease well dissolved and cleansed four ounces; of Bears 
Grease eight ounces; of Capons Grease four and twenty ounces; three 


Trunks of Mistletoe of the ash while green, cut into pieces and pound it 
small till they become moist; bruise together the wood, leaves and Berries, 
mix all ina Vial, after you have exposed it to the Sun for nine Weeks, you 
shall extract a green Balsam, wherewith if you anoint the Bodies of the 
Bewitched, especially the parts most affected, and the Joints, they will 
certainly be cured.”!2 


For epilepsy 


“_..a decoction made with the flowers of Lavendar, Horehound, Fennel and 
Asparagus roots, and a little Cinnamon.” 4 


For epilepsy, dropsy, jaundice, kidney stones 
“Seeds of parsley, fennel, anis, and carraway, each one ounce. Roots of 
parsley, Burnet, Saxifrage, and carraway— each an ounce and one-half— 
bruise seeds and wash roots cut small; leave overnight in white wine and in 
the morning boil away in an earthen vessel, strain and clean. Take 4 
ounces in the morning and evening being careful not to drink anything for 
three hours afterwards.”!2 
Ointment to ease pain of neck 
Mugwort, hog’s grease, field daisies. 
Poultice for swelling in head or throat 
Barley, meal, fleawort boiled in water, honey, and oil of lilies. 


For wounds, vomiting, or hemorrhage 


Drink the juice of leaves of the adder’s tongue with distilled water of horse 
tail. 


Elixirs and Strengtheners 


Elixir 


“Twice or thrice a week you must anoint your body thoroughly with ... 
cassia [a variety of cinnamon]; and every night before going to bed, you 
must place over your head a plaster, composed of a certain quantity of 
Oriental saffron, red rose-leaves, sandalwood, aloes, and amber, liquified in 
oil of roses, and the best white wax. During the day this must be kept in a 
leaden casket. You must next pen up in a court, where the water is sweet 
and the air pure, sixteen chickens, if you are of sanguine temperment; 
twenty-five, if phlegmatic; and thirty if melancholic. Of these you are to eat 
one a day after they have been fattened in such a manner as to have 
absorbed into their systems the qualities which ensure your longevity, for 
which purpose they are first to be kept without food until almost starved, 
and then gorged with a broth of serpents and vinegar, thickened with wheat 
and beans for at least two months. When they are served at your table you 


will drink a moderate quantity of white wine or claret to assist digestion.” 2 


Spider sandwich for strength 
Every morning eat a black spider between two slices of buttered bread. 
To sharpen sight 
Anoint your head and eyes with gall of cock, celandine juice, and honey. 
To strengthen teeth 
“Of the juice of the Grapes 1 oz. or 8 spoonsful, the bark of mulberry-tree 


root 1 oz. Boil it to half, and give it to wash the mouth for 3 or 5 or 7 days 
and your teeth will never ake.”/4 


Cosmetic Remedies 


To remove freckles 
Mix the dew that settles on wheat with rose water and oil 
of lilies. Anoint the afflicted area. 
To make hair grow 
Anoint your head with peach stones ground and mixed with vinegar. Boil 


maiden hair in white wine, and add smallage seed to it. Apply to scalp to 
prevent loss of hair and to make hair grow thick. 


Against Spells 


“Against elf and strange charm-magic; into wine crumble myrrh and an 
equal portion of white frankincense, and shave a part of the stone jet, into 
the wine. After fasting at night drink this for three or for nine or for twelve 
mornings.” 22 


To prevent fascination 


Boil coral in milk, and anoint or drink liquid. 


Boil a piece of iron ore and filings in milk, then add to wine. 


The Lamp of Life 


(Divinatory witch-lamp of uncertain purpose) 


“_,..take a good quantity of venal blood lukewarm as it came out of the vein, 
which being chemically prepared with spirit of wine and other ingredients, 
is at last made up into a candle, which being once kindled never goes out 
till the death of the party whose blood it is composed of; for when he is sick 
or in danger, it burns dim and troubled, and when he is dead, it is quite 
extinguished.” 1© 


1 Cyranus, The Magick of Kirani, King of Persia, London, 1685. 
2 Ibid, 

3 Francis Barrett, The Magus, London, 1801. 

4 Albertus Magnus, Booke of Secretes, London, c. 1560. 

2 Ibid. 

8 Ibid. 

Z Barrett, op. cit. 

8 Albertus Magnus, Egyptian Secrets, U.S.A., n.d. 

3 Barrett, op. cit. 

10 Richard Baxter, The Certainty of the Worlds of Spirits, London, 1691. 
1 Nicholas Culpepper, The English Physician, London, 1826. 
12 Tid. 


13 Amold de Villeneuve (thirtcenth-century alchemist), from W. H. Davenport Adams, Witch, 
Warlock, and Magician, New York, 1889. 


14 Cyranus, op. cit. 
15 Felix Grendon, The Anglo-Saxon Charms, New York, 1909. 


16 Reginald Scot, The Discoverie of Witchcraft. London, 1655. 


SPELLS, CHARMS, AND 
INCANTATIONS 


The terms charm, spell, and incantation all denote the phrases and 
formulas used in the working of magic. Charm and spell are also applied to 
the total magic act, including gestures either combined with words or by 
themselves, and to the state of enchantment that results from it. The most 
effective magic generally combines both words and actions; however, the 
critical ingredient in any spell, no matter how simple, complex, or bizarre, 
is the will and energy of the magician. Some spells are cast simply by 
means of magical power, usually innate. The most common powers of this 
sort are fascination and the evil eye. 


Fascination is the compelling of love or desire, often by the glance, or by 
other physical means, such as breathing into the mouth of the victim. The 
power to fascinate irresistibly is rare and difficult to develop for even the 
most skilled magicians. Probably everyone has at some time been a victim 
of fascination and will recognize the process in this description by the 
English magician Francis Barrett: 


We call fascination a binding, because it is affected by a look, glance, 
or observation, in which we take possession of the spirit, and 
overpower the same, of these we mean to fascinate or suspend; for it 
comes through the eyes, and the instrument by which we fascinate or 
bind is a certain, pure, lucid, subtil spirit, generated out of the ferment 
of the purer blood by the heat of the heart, and the firm, determined, 
and ardent will of the soul which directs it to the object previously 
disposed to be fascinated. This doth always send forth by the eyes rays 
or beams, carrying with them a pure subtil spirit of vapour into the eye 
or blood of him or her that is opposite. So the eye, being opened and 
intent any one with a strong imagination doth dart upon its beams, 


which are the vehicle of the spirit into whatever we will effect of 
being, which spirits striking the eye of them which are fascinated 
being stirred up in the heart and soul of him that sends them forth, and 
possessing the breast of them who are struck, wounds their hearts, 
infects their spirits, and overpowers them.4 


The evil eye is a glance that harms or kills. Some people possess the 
power unknowingly and cast the evil eye accidentally. Most witches have 
the evil eye, although witchhunters have claimed that, paradoxically, a 
witch cannot look a man directly in the eye. However, the evil eye does not 
always accompany other magic powers. Many amulets, especially those that 
bring fertility, are worn for protection against the evil eye. 


For those less gifted magically, a charm can be strengthened by 
repetition, by a period of fasting and concentration such as that observed in 
ceremonial magic, and by performing it in the day and hour of the 
appropriate planet (see appendix table: Government of the Hours). Even the 
least experienced practitioners of magic may find that certain spells work 
for them easily and with little effort. Such spells are often dangerous and 
should be used with extreme caution. Magic is usually controllable to the 
extent that it results from the magician’s own being. 


The following charms are arranged according to purpose, and illustrate a 
variety of magical techniques. Elements from several of these may be 
combined creatively to produce new spells. 


For Love 


A woman who wishes to gain the love of a man should procure the 
following materials from neighbors with whom she has never eaten: 
coriander, caraway, gum of terbinth, lime, cummin, verdigris, myrrh, some 
blood of an animal whose throat has been cut, and a piece of broom from a 
cemetery. On a dark night she is to go into the country with a lighted brazier 
and throw these different articles one after another into the fire, speaking 
these words: 


O coriander, bring him mad! 

O caraway, bring him wandering without success! 

O mastic, raise in his heart anguish and tears! 

O white lime, make his heart wakeful in disquietude! 
O cummin, bring him possessed! 

O verdigris, kindle the fire of his heart! 

O myrrh, make him spend a frightful night! 

O blood of the victim, lead him panting! 

O cemetery broom, bring him to my side.4 


When you see a falling star say: 


It is not the star which falls 
But my lover; may he fall 
Till he come by day or night, 
Or at midnight 

To beat at my door. 

Nor may he live nor stand 
Till he knocks at my door! 


Charm to arouse the passionate love of a woman 


May the disquieter, disquiet thee; do not hold out upon thy bed! With the 
terrible arrow Kama [love] do I pierce thee in the heart. 


The arrow, winged with longing, barbed with love, whose shaft is 
undeviating desire, with that, well-aimed, Kama shall pierce thee in the 
heart! 


With that well-aimed arrow of Kama which parches the spleen, whose 
plume flies forward, which burns up, do I pierce thee in the heart. 


Consumed by burning ardor, with parched mouth, do thou come to me, 
pliant, pride laid aside, mine alone, speaking sweetly, to me devoted! 


I drive thee with a goad from thy mother and thy father, so that thou shalt 
be in my power, shaft come up to my wish. 


All their thoughts do ye, O Mitra and Varuna, drive out of her! Then 
having deprived her of her will, put her into my power alone.4 


Charm to secure the love of a woman 


Hanker thou after my body, my feet, hanker after my eyes, my thighs. 
The eyes of thee, as thou lustest after me, and thy hair shall be parched with 
love! 


I make thee cling to my arm, cling to my heart, so that thou shalt be in 
my power, shalt come up to my wish. 


The cows, the mothers of the ghee, who lick their young, in whose heart 


love is planted, shall make yonder woman bestow love upon me.2 


To accompany this incantation the man should lay on the ground two 
chips, one from a tree, and one from a creeping shrub that grows up it. 
Between them he lays an arrow, sthakara-powder (for which substitute 
perfumed powder), salve, a piece of grass broken by the wind. He adds to 
them melted butter and anoints the woman he loves. 


Charm with licorice, to secure the love of a woman 


This plant is bom of honey, with honey do we dig for thee. Of honey thou 
art begotten, do thou make us full of honey! 


At the tip of my tongue may I have honey, at my tongue’s root the 
sweetness of honey! In my power alone shalt thou then be, thou shalt come 
up to my wish! 


Sweet as honey is my entrance; sweet as honey my departure. With my 
voice do I speak sweet as honey, may I become like honey! 


I am sweeter than honey, fuller of sweetness than licorice. Mayest thou, 
without fail, long for me alone, for a branch of honey! 


I have surrounded thee with a clinging sugarcane, to remove aversion, so 
that thou shalt not be averse to me!® A man puts a blade of grass in his 
mouth and turns to the east, then to the west saying: 


Where the sun goes up 
Shall my love be by me! 
Where the sun goes down 
There by her I’Il be.Z 


Take a shoe that the woman you love has worn, fill it with rue, and hang 
it over your bed to make her love you. 


You may fascinate a woman by giving her a piece of cheese. Put nine drops 
of your fresh blood on a cloth in which you will steam the food of the one 
you love. 


Burn part of a dress after you have perspired heavily in it and introduce the 
ashes into the food or drink of the man you desire. 


Variations of the charms above are probably found in every civilization. 
The introduction of one’s hair, clothing, sweat, tears, blood, nails, etc., into 
the lover’s food may be the love charm most widely practiced. For no 
obvious reason, it is used primarily by women. 


You may also introduce perspiration directly, either by wiping your moist 
body with an item of food, usually an ingredient in a cake or a potion, or if 
you are more fastidious, by taking a hot bath, then powdering or flouring 
yourself and adding the moistened powder. In any case, make sure you are 
wearing no deodorant; it seems highly likely that deodorant, used as a 
magical ingredient, would destroy love. 


Finely ground hair or nails are often added to a cake to be fed to the man 
who is the object of the charm. If you are able to obtain some of his hair or 
nails, add them too. 


In another gypsy charm, the woman mixes her hair with some dirt from 
the man’s footprints, burns them, and adds the ashes to his food. 


Braid your hair with that of the one you love to insure that you remain 
together. 


Wear a bracelet made from the hair of your lover to retain his affection. 


To win the love of a woman: “Take salt, cheese and flour, mix it together, 
put it into her room, and she will have no rest until she sees you.”® 


Find a pair of dogs copulating, put a cloth over them, and later give it to the 
girl you want saying: 


“T the dog, she the bitch, 
I the helve, she the axe 

I the cock, she the hen, 
That, that I desire.”2 


A mirror may also be used in this charm. After you capture the dogs’ image 
in the mirror, cover it with a cloth. Do not uncover it until you show it to 
the woman you want. 


“When you wish that your sweetheart shall not deny you, take the 

turtledove tongue into your mouth and kiss her, and she will accept your 
+. 9910 

suit.” 


“Take the feathers from a rooster’s tail, press them three times into her 
hand. Probatum.”14 


“Take an onion, a tulip, or any root of the kind, and plant it in a clean pot 
never used before; and while you plant it repeat the name of the one whom 
you love; every day, morning, and evening, say over it: 


As this root grows 

And as this blossom blows, 
May her heart be 

Tumed unto me! 


And it will come to pass that every day the one whom you love will be 
more and more inclined to you, till you get your heart’s desire.” 44 


“In the pingle [small pan] or the pan, 

Or the hauspan [skull] 0’ man, 

Boil the heart’s-bluid o’ the tade [toad], 

wi’ the tallow o’ the gled [kite], 

Hawket [finely choped] kail an’ hen-dirt, 

Char’d [chewed] cheese an chicken-wort [chicken-weed] 
Yellow puddocks [probably toadstool] champit [bruised] sma’, 
Spiders ten, and gellocks [earwigs] twa, 

Sclaters two [wood-lice], frae foggy [mossy] dykes, 
Bumbees twunty, frae theia bykes [nest], 

Asks [newts] frae stinking lochens blue, 

Ay, will make a better stue [stew or brew]; 

Bachelors maun hae a charm, 

Hearts they hae fu’ o harm.”42 


For an assignation 


“The bull with a thousand horns who rose out of the sea, with the aid of 
him, the mighty one, do we put the folks to sleep. 


The wind blows not over the earth. No one looks on. Do thou then, 
befriended of Indra, put all women and dogs to sleep. 


The women that lie upon couches and upon beds, and they that rest in 
litters, the women, all that exhale sweet fragrance, do we put to sleep. 


Every moving thing I have held fast. Eye and breath I have held fast. I 
have held fast all limbs in the deep gloom of the night. 


Of him that sits, and him that walks, of him that walks, of him that stands 
and looks about, of these the eyes we do shut, just as these premises. 


The mother shall sleep, the father shall sleep, the dog shall sleep, the lord 
of the house shall sleep. All her relations shall sleep, and these people round 
about shall sleep! 


O sleep, put thou to sleep all people with the magic that induces sleep! 
Put the others to sleep until the sun rises; may I be awake until the dawn 
appears, like Indra, unharmed, uninjured.”4 


To win the love of a woman who does not want you 


Thread a needle with her hair, and run it through the fleshiest limb of a 
dead man. 


To win a love who rejects you 


Make a wax doll, in his or her name or image, then roast it over the fire. 
As the wax melts, so will the heart of the loved one. 


To destroy the love of another for you 


Burn the person’s nails, hair, blood, worn clothing, or saliva (may be on 
partially consumed food). 


Give him who loves you a knife or other sharp, cutting object. (If you do 
this unintentionally to one you love, he or she must give you a penny or 
other small object to break the spell.) 


To free yourself from a love spell 


“To procure the dissolving of bewitched and constrained love, the party 
bewitched must make a jakes [toilet] of the lover’s shoe.”!2 


Boil cedar leaves in water, then wet your foot or hand with the liquid and 
kick or strike the person who cast the spell. 


If so be a toad laid 
In a sheep-skin newly flaid 
And that tyd to man, ’twil sever 


Him and his affections ever.1® 


To bring back an unfaithful lover 


Throw dragon’s blood wrapped in paper into the fire saying: 


May he no pleasure or profit see, 


Till he come back to me./Z 


A magic for one who has been infatuated by illicit love to a female 


“Such a person must put a pair of shoes on and walk therein until his feet 
perspire, but must walk fast so that the feet do not smell badly; then take off 
the right shoe, drink some beer or wine out of this shoe, and he will from 
that moment lose all affection for her.”!8 


“_.. if any woman hath enchanted thee to love her, take the gown she 
Sleepeth in out of doors and spit through the right sleeve thereof, when the 
enchantment will be quitted.”2 


Chastity 


“,. a young graft being thrust through a Frogs guts, and fastened by the 


Husband in his Wives flowers, then it will cause his Wife to loathe adultery 
920 


Fertility 


Make a hole in both ends of the shell of a raw egg. The husband blows 
through one hole so that the egg goes into his wife’s mouth, and she 
swallows it. The wife will become pregnant. 


To make a woman fertile and loved by her husband 


“Closed are the mouths of all races, legions, and tongues from N.N. and 
the angel Rahmiel and the angel Habbiel and the angel Hanniniel, these 
angels, pity and love and compassionate and embrace N.N. Before all the 
sons of Adam whom he begat by Eve, we will enter in before them; from 
their clothing they will clothe her, and from their garments they will garb 
her, the garment of the place of God. With her they will sit, on this side and 
on that, driving away demons, as is right. In the name of YHWH-in- Yah, 
EI-El the great, the awful, whose word is panacea, this mystery is 
confirmed, made fast and sure, forever and ever. 


Hark a voice in the mysteries! ... Hark the voice of a woman, a virgin 
travailing and not bearing. Quickly be enamoured, be enamoured, and come 
N.N.2 [the husband] to the marrow of his house and to the marrow of N.N. 
his wife; as a virgin travailing and bearing not, so may she be fresh myrtle 
for crowns. Amen, amen, and made fast and sure is salvation from Heaven 
for N.N.”24 


Rub the belly of any animal with calamint and the stone from the nest of 
a lapwing and it will conceive. 


Impotency 


When you have lost your manhood 


When you are infatuated and betwitched by a woman, so that you may 
not love any other, then take blood of a buck and grease your head 
therewith, and you will soon be all right again.”22 


“Take a new fresh-laid egg, if possible, one that is yet warm. Pour whale 
oil over it, and boil the egg in it; the oil then should be poured into running 
water, stream downward, never upward, then open the egg a little, carry it to 
an ant’s hill, of the large red species, as are found in fir-trees forest, and 
there bury the egg. As soon as the ants have devoured the egg, the weak and 
troubled person will be restored to former strength and vigor.”22 


“Fill a quill with Quick-silver, and lay the same under the cushion where 
such a one sitteth, or else to put it under the threshold or the door of the 
house or chamber where he dwelleth.”24 


“Piss through a wedding ring.”22 


“Spit in your own bosome.”22 


To cure impotency 


Make a wax figure of the inadequate members, and recite appropriate 
incantations over it. 


To make a woman sterile 


“The other enemies conquer with might; beat back, O Gatavedas, those 
that are not yet bom! Enrich this kingdom into happiness, may all the gods 
acclaim this man! 


Of these hundred entrails of thine, as well as of the thousand canals, of 
all these have I closed the openings with a stone. 


The upper part of the womb do I place below, there shall come to thee 
neither offspring nor birth! I render thee sterile and devoid of offspring; a 
stone do I make into a cover for thee!”22 


The person casting the spell puts urine of a female mule into the food or 
drink of the victim. 


To cause impotence 


Ligature is the term applied to spells causing impotence, usually through 
binding or tying something, for instance, knotting a string, a strip of leather, 
when accompanied by incantations such as the following: 


“Twine in three knots, Amaryllis, in three colors twine them, Amaryllis, 
do and say.”28 


“Far si far, fa far fay u, far four na forty Kay u Mack straik it, a pain four 
hun creig wel Mack smeoran bun bagie.”22 


A spell of ligature can be broken only by untying the knots. Young boys 
are especially adept at casting such spells. 


To prevent a tree from bearing fruit 


Hang in it a rose seed, a mustard seed, and the foot of a weasel. 


For Good Fortune and Favor 


“Tf you desire to go to your lord or to the king or to another man or to an 
assembly, then carry these writings with you; every one of them will then 
be friendly and gracious to you. 


X X. he.d. e.o.e.0.0.0.e.¢.e.laf.d.R.U.fi. f. p. A. x. Box. Nux. In nomine 
patris Rex. M. p. x. XIX. xls. sli. il. Deo. el. deo. deo. lafdruel.bepax. box. 
nux. bu. In nomine patris rex mariae. Jesus Cristus dominus meus. Jesus . 
Eonfra. senioribus H. brinlur. her. letus contra me. bee. larrhibus excitatio 
pacis inter virum and mulierum A. B. and alfa tibi reddit nota fructu leta. 
lita tota. tauta. vol tellus et ade virescit.”22 


Good luck charm for witch to say daily and before going out 
“The fire bites, the fire bites; Hogs-turd over it, Hogs-turd over it, Hogs- 
turd over it; the Father with thee, the Son with me, the Holy-Ghost between 
us both to be: ter. 


Then spit over one shoulder, then over the other, and then three times 
right forward.”2! 


Charm to win a lawsuit 


“ ... if anyone has to settle any just claim by way of a law suit, let him 
take some of the largest kind of sage and write the names of the 12 apostles 
on the leaves and put them in his shoes before entering the courthouse and 
he shall certainly gain the suit.”24 


Against anger 


“As the bowstring from the boy, thus do I take off thy anger from thy 
heart, so that, having become of the same mind, we shall associate like 
friends! 


Like friends we shall associate—I take off thy anger. Under a stone that 
is heavy do we cast thy anger. 


I step upon thy anger with my heel and my fore-foot, so that, bereft, of 
will, thou shalt not speak, shalt come up to my wish!”22 


Against Injury 


Write these words on a paper or amulet: “Light, Beff, Cletemati, Adonai, 
Cleona, Flcrit.”24 


Protection against rape or other defilement 


“_,.if a woman takes a needle and bewray it with dung and put it up in 
earth in which the carcass of a man has been buried, and carry it about her 
in a piece of cloth used at a funeral, no man can defile her as long as she 
carries that”22 


Against Madness 


“Release for me, O Agni, this person here, who bound and well-secured, 
loudly jabbers! Then shall he have due regard for thy share when he shall 
be free from madness. 


Agni shall quiet down thy mind, if it has been disturbed. Cunningly do I 
prepare a remedy, that thou shalt be freed from madness. 


Whose mind has been maddened by the sin of the gods, or has been 
robbed of sense by the Rakshas, for him do I cunningly prepare a remedy, 
that he shall be free from madness. 


May the Apsaras restore thee, may Indra, may Bhaga restore thee; may 
all the gods restore thee, that thou mayest be freed from madness.”22 


To cure fits caused by witchcraft 


Wear around the neck: 


Callen Dan Dant, 
Dan Dant Callen, 
Dan Callen Dant.24 


“To remove trembling arising from demoniacal possession—write 
[Solomon’s Seal] on a plant that has milky juice, and drive a nail through it; 
the trembling will cease.”22 


Against Pain and Disease 


“The wicked god, the wicked demon 
the demon of the desert, the demon of the mountain, 
the demon of the sea, the demon of the marsh, 


the evil genius, the enormous uruku, 

the bad wind by itself 

the wicked demon which seizes the body, which disturbs the body, 

Spirit of the heavens, conjure it! Spirit of the earth, conjure it! 

That which does not go away, that which is not propitious, 

that which grows up, ulcers of a bad kind, 

poignant ulcers, enlarged ulcers, excoriated ulcers, ulcers ... 

ulcers which spread, malignant ulcers, 

Spirit of the heavens, conjure it! Spirit of the earth, conjure it! 

Disease of the bowels, the disease of the heart, the palpitation of the 
diseased heart, 

disease of the vision, disease of the head, malignant dysentery, 

ulceration of the veins and micturition which wastes cruel agony 
which never ceases, 

nightmare 

Spirit of the heavens, conjure it! Spirit of the earth, conjure it!22 


To cure fever, write the following on a piece of paper between 8 o’clock 
and 9 on Friday, and suspend it around the patient’s neck; 


RH C H T H BR UH 
RHCHMT iH BR 
RHC AT HM SB 
rwCc HH C8 
RH CHT 

R H C H 

R H C 

R H 

R 


ele aks oko Gs cls ole ols Gis aie ois ole 
+ ins > ~*~ Bk ~ * :  « > - = = B= = 


Make a wax image of the afflicted part, and burn it. 


To cure disease 


Take ashes from 3 comers of the chimney, then apply a linen cloth 3 
times to the diseased area. 


To cure hemorrhage 
In the blood of Adam sin was taken 
In the blood of Christ it was all shaken 
And by the same blood I do thee charge 
That the blood of (N.N.) run no longer at large*! 
For lung disease 
Cathari Duni Chini Brini*4 


To cure the gout 


Etter sheen etter sock, Et ta leur etta pachk Wipper si casn easemitter in 


shi fo leish in shi corne, orn sheip twa till ane curht mach a mainshore.*2 


To cure ague 


Five times go to the nearest crossroads at midnight and bury a freshly 
laid egg. 


To protect and cure eyes 


Write the following on a piece of paper, wrap it in silk, and hang it 
around the neck: 


Diabolus effodiat tibi oculos impleat foramina stercoribus.4 
Charm for diarrhea 


“_,.to be sung on a soft-boiled egg nine times for three days: 


Ecce dolgola nedit dudum 
bethecunda brethecunda 
elecunda eleuahge 

macte me erenum 

ortha fueba 

lata uis leti unda 

nosuis terrae dulgedob.”42 


For pain in the bowels and in the fatty part of the abdomen 


“.,.when you see a dung-beetle on the ground throwing up earth, seize 
him and the heap with both hands, wave him vigorously with your hands 
and say three times: Remedium facio adventris dolorum. Then throw away 
the beetle over your back; take care not to look after it. When a man’s 
bowels or belly fat pain him, grasp his abdomen in your hands. He will 
soon be well. You will be able to do this for twelve months after seizing the 
beetle.”42 


Charm for a burn 


“Lay your right hand very softly over the burn, then repeat these words 
three times over unto yourself, giving a gentle blow each time from your 
mouth on the place burned: 


Old clod beneath the clay 
Burn away, burn away 
In the name of God be thou healed. Amen.”22 


Against falling sickness 


“Drink in the night at a Spring-water out of a skull of one that hath been 
slain. Otherwise eat a pig killed with a knife that slew a man.”“2 


Against cramp 


On a slip of paper, which the patient will wear as an amulet, write the 
following: 


Edoae Veoafp Beoaev.*2 
Cramp be thou painless, 
As our Lady was sinless, 


When she bore Jesus.22 


For a headache 
Rub the head, then wash it with hot water or vinegar, saying: 


“Oh, pain in my head, 

The father of all evil, 

Look upon thee now! 

Thou hast greatly pained me, 
Thou tormentest my head, 
Remain not in me! 

Go thou, go thou, go home, 
Whence thou, Evil One, didst suck, 
Thither, thither hasten! 

Who treads upon my shadow, 
To him be the pain.”=4 


For pain in the limbs 
Spit on the place that pains you and sing the following nine times: 
“Malignus obligavit, angelus curavit, dominus salvavit.”>2 


For local pain 


Put earthworms into a wooden bucket, or box, preferably one bound with 
iron hoops, pour water into it, then drink the water saying: 


“Earthworms who slip through earth below 


Secrets of sorcery ye know, 

When the good foot doth o’er you tread, 
Or when it passes overhead 

Transfer its power and its merit, 

Now I pray you to this spirit, 

To do such virtue as it may, 

And let this headache pass away!” 


For a sprain 
“As St. Agnes went over the moon to the mountain of Moses, she fell and 
her foot turned. But sinue to sinue, and bone to bone, God makes all right to 


him who has faith; and be thou healed, O man, in Jesus’ name. Amen.” 


Incantation to fire for cure 
“Great fire, my defender and protector, son of the celestial fire, equal of 
the sun who cleanses the earth of foulness, deliver this man from the evil 
sickness that torments him night and day.” 
Against toothache 
“Galbes, galbat, galdes, galdat.” 


To cause the hair to grow wherever you wish 


“Take milk of a slut, and saturate therewith the spot wherever the hair is 
desired to grow.” 


Against Enemies 


Most magic to harm enemies is worked by means of an image that 
represents the person to be affected. From figures found in the tombs of 
ancient Egypt to voodoo dolls in the islands of the Caribbean, such images 


have been used in nearly all parts of the world. Materials may vary from 
region to region, but the basic methods are surprisingly similar. An image 
or doll is made of wax, clay, wood, wool, straw, brass, lead, tin, flour, 
butter, feathers, or other material. Some nails, hair, blood, saliva, or clothing 
from the intended victim may be added to it. Sometimes the image is 
baptized in the name of the victim, or identified with him by incantation. It 
is then cut, stabbed, melted, burned, drowned, buried, or otherwise 
tormented, and the victim suffers similar pain or death. The image may be 
hidden in the victim’s own bed. Substitutes for the traditional doll include a 
picture of the victim, a candle, a hand of glory (see chapter on amulets and 
talismans), an image shaped like a frog or toad, and the heart of an animal. 
To make a man afraid, suspend an image of him by a single thread. To 
cause him pain, stroke his image with your wet finger. The following are 
instructions for injuring enemies by image magic: 


“Make an image in his name whom you would hurt or kill, of new virgin 
wax; under the right armpit whereof place a Swallow’s heart, and the liver 
under the left; then hang about the neck thereof a new thread in a new 
needle pricked into the member which you would have hurt ... sometimes 
these images are made of brass, and then the hand is placed where the foot 
should be, and the foot where the hand, and the face downward ... fora 
greater mischief, the like image is made in the form of a man or woman, 
upon whose head is writen the certain Name of the party; and on his or her 
ribs these words, Allif, casyl, zaze, hit, mel, meltat; then the same must be 
buried.”22 


To harm a rival in love 


“_,.prepare the image or instrument proper to this effect in order and 
manner thereof. Fumigate with the proper perfumes and if writing be 
required on the image, let it be done with the needle or stylet of the art ... 
Next recite the following words once more over the said image: USOR 
DILAPIDATORE, TENTATORE, SOIGNATORE, DEVORATORE, 
CONCITORE ET SEDUCTORE. O all ye ministers and companions, I 
direct, conjure, constrain and command ye to fulfill this behest willingly, 
namely straightway to consecrate this image, which is to be done in the 


name of , that as the face of the one is contrary to the other, so 
the same may never more look one upon another. 


Deposit the image in some place perfumed with evil odours, especially 
those of Mars, such as sulphur and asafoetida. Let it remain there for one 
night having duly asperged it, observing the proper hour and place.”=4 


Form an image of the victim from meal, barley, or moistened earth, color 
the forehead red and clothe it in red. Point the head toward the north, and 
cut it off with an axe. 


Incorporate pins in the wax image. Baste it in a mixture of water and ale; 
then roast it over a fire. 


Baptize a large toad in the name of the victim, and make it swallow 
consecrated host that has been marked with evil words or characters. Then 
tie with hair of the victim, and bury it under a threshold or other place he 
passes daily. 


Make a picture of the victim out of black-colored wax; then shoot it with 
arrows. 


“Tf any one shall, with an entire new knife, cut asunder a lemon, using 
words impressive of hatred, contumely, or dislike, against any individual, 
the absent party, though at an unlimited distance, feels a certain 
inexpressible and cutting anguish of the heart, together with a cold 
chilliness and failure throughout the body.”=2 


(You may also stick pins in a lemon, orange or other fruit or vegetable. 
As the fruit dries and decays, your enemy will similarly waste away. Or call 
an herb or flower by the name of your enemy, and let it dry out.) 


“Tf a pigeon be cut through the heart, it causes the heart of the party 
intended to affect with a sudden failure.”2® 


Stick pins into a sheep’s heart and roast it over a fire into which salt has 
been thrown, saying: 


“Tt is not this heart I mean to burn 

But ’s heart I mean to burn 
Wishing him neither rest nor peace 

Till he is dead and gone.” 


(Charms of this structure are appropriate whenever an animal, plant, or 
object is being used as an image of the intended victim.) 


To punish a false lover, at midnight stick a bird’s heart full of pins. 


To revenge oneself on a faithless lover, light a candle at midnight and 
prick it with a needle, saying: 


“Thrice the candle’s broke by me 
Thrice thy heart shall broke be.”28 


(Although the candle can be used in image magic against any enemy, it is 
especially effective, for obvious reasons, when used by a woman against a 
former lover.) 


Bury a lighted candle at night in a churchyard; your enemy will waste 
away unless he finds the candle and eats it. 


Bury a glove of the person you wish to destroy; he will pine away as it 
rots. Or dip the glove in hot water, prick it many times, then bury it. 


To kill or harm an enemy 


Bury bottles or vials along a path where the victim will walk. When his 
foot touches the spot, he will become diseased. 


To kill an enemy, say a mass for the dead in his name. This is especially 
effective when performed in a churchyard. 


Prick a piece of leather nine times. 


To bewitch an enemy to death: hang up a black toad by the heels and 
collect venom in an oyster shell and impregnate with it a piece of the 


victim’s soiled linen. 


Weave hair of a victim into a bird’s nest to drive him mad. Or introduce 
the hair into a growing branch; as the wood covers it, he will become mad. 


Consecrate nails, especially those from a coffin, using fumes of Saturn. 
Follow the footsteps of your intended victim and prick the shape of a cross 
in all you can. 


Witch's ladder 


Make and hide a string of nine knots. Unless the victim can find it and 
untie the knots, he will slowly die. 


Charm to vanquish a man 


sal , will breathe on thee, three drops of blood 


I draw from thee. The first from thy heart, the other from thy liver, the 
third from thy vigorous life. By this I take all thy strength, and thou losest 
the strife.”°2 Repeat three times. 


Charm to deprive enemies of their strength 


“As the rising sun takes away the lustre of the stars, thus do I take away 
the strength of both the women and men that hate me. 


As many enemies as ye are, looking out against me, as I come on—of 
those that hate me, do I take away the strength, as the sun takes away the 
strength of persons asleep.”© 


“If any one happens to commit nuisance at thy door and thou will prevent 
that beastly trick in future, take the poker red-hot, and put it into the 
excrement, and, by magnetism, his posteriors shall become much scorched 
and inflamed.”® 


To banish an unwelcome guest, put a broom behind the door of another 
room, pointing toward him. 


To bring discord 


“Tf the powder [of vervain and grain or corn] be put in a place where men 
dwell, or lie between two lovers, anon is made strife or malice between 
them.”&2 


For return of stolen goods 


“At midnight take off your left shoe and put manure on the big toe, and 
throw it into the fire and say, in the devil's name: Ensuer, this I throw upon 
the burn, so long till the thief returns my stolen goods, as sure as God hath 
cast thee into the abyss of hell, when the thief returns my own, bid him 
leave in the devil’s name.”® 


Against sorcery and witchcraft 


“He who forges images, he who bewitches 

the malevolent aspect, the evil eye, 

the malevolent lip, the finest sorcery, 

Spirit of the heaven, conjure it! Spirit of the earth, conjure it!”® 


Against the evil eye or witchcraft, wear braided hair, or clothing, or 
jewelry with an interlaced pattern. It will entangle the witch’s gaze. 


To banish a witch, boil in a pot over a fire sweet milk with three rows 
each of pins and needles that have never been used. The house must be 
completely sealed. 


(Irish, Seymour) In a similar charm, the urine or blood of a person who 
has been bewitched is put in a tightly sealed bottle with iron nails and hair 
clipping and boiled at midnight in a sealed house. The witch, feeling painful 
burning, will come knocking at the door. When she is not allowed to enter, 
she will die, and the spell will be broken. The bottle and its contents must 


afterward be buried. It is perhaps wise to leave a small opening in the 
boiling bottle to prevent its explosion. 


Make a wax image of the bewitched person and burn it. 


Weather Magic 


The most effective means of raising winds, especially for sailing, is to 
carry a knotted string, usually with three knots, which are gradually 
loosened as stronger winds are desired. Such strings are most effective 
when purchased from witches. 


To bring rain 
Beat a broom upon a river and then shake it at the sky. 
Throw hair into the sea to stop or start storms. 
To raise a storm 


Dip a rag into water and beat it three times on a stone in the name of 
Satan: 


“T knock this rag upon this stone 
To raise the wind in the devil’s name 
It shall not lye till I please again.”& 


To Foretell the Future 


Engrave on a lodestone: 


qaMaaaGyna;Maaaaea 


To make a mirror in which everything may be discerned 


Procure a looking glass, such as are commonly sold. Inscribe the 
characters noted below upon it. Inter it on the crossing of two pathways, 
during an uneven hour. On the third day thereafter, hie to the place at the 
same hour, and take it out; but you must not be the first person to look into 
the glass. It is best to let a dog or a cat take the first look into the mirror: 


S. Solam S. Tattler S. Echogordner Gematur.®® 


Miscellaneous 


Take the blood of a snail, tie it up in a linen cloth, and make of it a wick 
and lighten it in a lamp; give it to any man thou wilt, and say lighten this, he 
shall not cease to fart, until he let it depart.©2 


To gather birds together hange mistletoe with the wing of a swallow ina 
tree. 


“Tf thou wilt gather [the lily] the sun being in the sign of the Lion, and 
wilt mix it with the juice of the laurel or bay tree and afterwards thou shalt 
put the juice under the dung of cattle a certain time, it shall be turned into 
worms which if powder be made and be put into the neck of any man or in 
his clothes, he shall never sleep until it be put away.” 


To heal pain one has inflicted 


“_..if any one shall be sorry for any blow that he hath given another afar 
off or nigh at hand, if he shall presently spit into the middle of that hand 
with which he gave the blow, the party that was smitten shall presently be 
freed from pain.”& 


To cause sleep 


Take a small piece of clothing, which the person to be enchanted has 
worn recently. Fold it into a small bundle, and fasten it with two twigs 
placed in the form of an X. Then place it in or under the pillow on which he 
will sleep. 


To make butter churn 


Come Butter come, 
Come Butter come, 
Peter stands at the Gate, 


Waiting for a Butter’d Cake, 


Come Butter come. 


1 Francis Barren, The Magus, London, 1801. 

2 James A. Montgomery, Aramaic Incantation Texts from Nippur, Philadelphia, 1913. 
3 Charles Godfrey Leland, Etruscan Roman Remains in Popular Tradition, New York, 1892. 
4 Atharva-Veda, in Sacred Books of the East, Vol. 42, Oxford, 1897. 

2 Ibid. 

8 Ibid. 

Z Charles Godfrey Leland, Gypsy Sorcery and Fortune Telling, London, 1891. 

8 Albertus Magnus, Egyptian Secrets, U.S.A., n.d. 

3 Leland, Gypsy Sorcery. 

10 Ajbertus Magnus, op. cit. 

1 Tid. 

12 Leland, Gypsy Sorcery. 


13 J. Maxwell Wood, Witchcraft and Superstitious Record in the Southwestern District of Scotland, 
Dumfries, Scotland, 1911. 


14 Atharva-Veda. 

15 Reginald Scot, The Discoverie of Witchcraft, London, 1655. 

16 Robert Herrick, quoted in John Brand, Popular Antiquities of Great Britain, London, 1905. 
i Brand, op. cit. 

18 Albertus Magnus, op. cit. 

12 Henry Cornelius Agrippa von Nettesheim, The Philosophy of Natural Magic, Chicago, 1913. 
20 Thomas Bromhall, A Treatise of Specters, London, 1658. 

21 Montgomery, op. cit. 

22 Albertus Magnus, op. cit. 

23 Ibid. 

24 Scot, op. cit. 

25 Ibid. 

26 Ibid. 

27 Atharva-Veda. 

28 Christianus Pazig, A Treatise of Magic Incantations, Edinburgh, 1886. 
29 George Sinclair, Satan's Invisible World Discovered, Edinburgh, 1871. 
30 Felix Grendon, The Anglo-Saxon Charms, New York, 1909. 

31 Scot, op. cit. 

32 John Hohman, The Long Lost Friend, N.p., n.d. (late nineteenth century). 
33 Atharva-Veda. 

34 Albertus Magnus, op. cit. 

35 Barrett, op. cit. 


36 Atharva-Veda. 


37 Richard Baxter, The Certainty of the Worlds of Spirits, London, 1691. 
38 H. P. Blavatsky, Isis Unveiled, New York, 1893. 

39 Francois Lenormant, Chaldean Magic, London, 1877. 

40 Albertus Magnus, op. cit. 

41 John Dalyell, The Darker Superstitions of Scotland, Edinburgh, 1834. 
42 Sinclair, op. cit. 

43 Ibid. 

Sa Brand, op. cit. 

45 Grendon, op. cit. 

46 Ibid. 

47 Jane F. Wilde, Ancient Cures, Charms, and Usages of Ireland, London, 1890. 
48 Scot, op. cit. 

49 Albertus Magnus, op. cit. 

20 Brand, op. cit. 

ol Leland, Gypsy Sorcery. 

22 Grendon, op. cit. 

23 Scot, op. cit. 

34 “Key of Solomon,” in A. E. Waite, The Book of Black Magic and of Pacts. 
55 Barrett, op. cit. 

28 Ibid. 

7 Philip W. Sergeant, Witches and Warlucks, London, 1936. 

38 Leland, Gypsy Sorcery. 


29 Albertus Magnus, op. cit. 


80 Atharva-Veda. 

61 Barrett, op. cit. 

82 Albertus Magnus, The Booke of Secretes, London, c. 1560. 
83 A tbertus Magnus, Egyptian Secrets. 

64 Lenormant, op. cit. 

65 Dalyell, op. cit. 

86 A jbertus Magnus, Egyptian Secrets. 

67 Albertus Magnus, Booke of Secretes. 

88 Tid. 

9 Von Nettesheim, op. cit. 


20 Sinclair. op. cit. 


AMULETS AND TALISMANS 


An amulet is an object worn anywhere on the body, but most often 
around the neck, to ward off evil and disease or to bring about desired 
results. Amulets are frequently made from stones or gems, which may be 
engraved with magic words, characters, or pictures. A variety of small 
objects may be sewn into a bag and worn as an amulet An amulet is usually 
most effective if it is composed at the time and with substances of the planet 
by which its objective is ruled. (See appendix tables on the hours and the 
government of the planets.) 


The terms amulet and talisman are often used interchangeably, but 
amulet refers strictly to objects worn on the body. A talisman, on the other 
hand, may be placed somewhere or touched to the body of another. Amulets 
are of very ancient origin and were used extensively by the Egyptians. 


Following are some examples of amulets and talismans. Others may be 
found in the Glossary, Magic Numbers, Words, and Symbols, and Spells, 


Charms, and Incantations. The table at the end of this chapter gives 
instructions for composition of special planetary amulets. 


For love 


Wear or carry a key, especially on a red ribbon. This amulet is most 
effective for men. 


Make a small image of a bird, preferably using real feathers, enclose it in 
a red silk bag, and wear or carry it with you. 


For fertility 


Wear the image of a crescent moon, the claws of a crab, or the tusks of a 
boar, or any other horn-shaped object or image. These also avert the evil 


eye. 
For success 


“Tf any man shall have celandine with the heart of a Mole, he shall 
overcome all his enemies and all matters in suit and shall put away all 


debate.”4 
For fertility and protection of land 


“Inscribe the circle with the point of your knife on a meal stone, and 
drive a stake into the middle of the hedge surrounding your land; then lay 
the stone against the stake so that it will be underground except the side 
written upon.”2 

This is how the circle should be inscribed: 


XI. XXV. 


cont 


fl. Xi. Xi. 
opes ut 
iil, XVIL salui sint 
and in Corda 


Vil. XIX. XXVIIl. 


Vill. XX. XXIX. X.| eorum. Sah 


For words of peace 


“_.. if the marigold be gathered, the Sun being in the sign of Leo, in 
August, and be wrapped in the leafe of a Laurel of bay tree and a wolves 
tongue added thereto, no man shall be able to have a word to speak against 
the bearer thereof, but words of peace.”2 


A gainst sorcery and the evil eye 


To protect a house from evil and sorcery, make a horseshoe red hot, hang 
it over the entrance and never remove it. To keep away evil spirits and bad 
dreams, nail it to your bed. 


“Tf the incubus oppress a man, take lupine and garlic and betony and 
frankincense, bind them in a fawn-skin; let him have them on his person 
and let him go indoors with them.”4 


To prevent witchcraft, the evil eye, and disease wear a charm of wood, 
bone, or ivory in the shape of the left hand clenched with the index and the 
little finger extended or open. Such an amulet is sometimes called a Hand 
of Glory. 


To prevent the evil eye, wear suspended from the neck and tied together 
with red thread, a tooth, a piece of red cloth or wool and a nut on which 
magical characters or pictures may be painted. 


Remedies 


“Tie up the sting of a Scorpion, and the extremity of the Herb Basil, in 
which the Seed is, and a Swallow’s heart in a Deer’s skin, and you will cure 
lunaticks; and this phylactery both casts out disobedient Devils and compels 
them to go away.”2 


“These two Greek letters, 7 and a written in a paper, and hung around 
one’s neck, preserve the party from Bleereyedness.”® 


Against cramp: “Take a white root of rhubarb, pulverize the same, and 
fill with such powder a square pouch made of linen, about three thumbs in 
size. The patient should carry the pouch on a string around his neck that it 
will touch the bare skin in the neighborhood of the stomach.” 


For good health 
Wear bird’s bones in your clothes. 
To prevent sleep 


Bind the eyes of a frog with the flesh of a nightingale in the skin of a 
hart, place them near the person you wish to keep awake. 


To discover a thief 


“When a man steals anything from you, write this silently and put it in 
your left shoe under your heel. Then you will soon find out about it.”® 


pst | he | 


For invisibility 


Wear a thumb cover made from the ear of a black cat boiled in the milk 
of a black cow. 


Planetary Amulets 


Certain amulets are composed so that they will obtain the virtues of their 
ruling planets in special intensity, 


Saturn 


“Engrave upon a load-stone the image of a man, having the countenance 
of a hart, and camel’s feet, and sitting upon a chair, or else a dragon, 


holding in his right hand a scythe, in his left, a dart, which image they 
hoped would be profitable for prolongation of life.”2 


Jupiter 


For prolongation of life, make “an image in the hour of Jupiter, Jupiter 
being in his exaltation fortunately ascending.” Engrave in a clear and white 
stone the figure of a crowned man “clothed with garments of saffron colour, 
riding upon an eagle or dragon, having in his right hand a dart, about, as it 
were, to strike it into the head of the same eagle or dragon.”/2 


To make a talismanic ring 


“ ..when any star ascends in the horoscope (fortunately) with a fortunate 
aspect or conjunction of the moon, we proceed to take a stone and herb, that 
is under that star, and likewise make a ring of the metal that is 
corresponding to the star; and in the ring, under the stone, put the herb or 
root, not forgetting to inscribe the effect, image, name, and character, as 
also the proper suffume.”44 (Refer to the appendix table on Government of 
the Planets.) 


Miscellaneous 


“A ring made without fire of the smallest part of the bit of an asses 
bridle, and wom, drives away devils, and diverts fevers; it makes Venus 
also great to women.” 4 


Hand of Glory 


The hand of glory is made of the right hand of a murderer severed during 
an eclipse of the moon, and dried and preserved. It is used in spells, 
especially those of black magic. If a candle is placed in a hand of glory, 
only the person using it can see it. Carried into a house at night, it will 
prevent the inhabitants from waking. 


Of uncertain purpose 


Magic Squares 


A magic square is an amulet in the shape of a square containing words or 
numbers arranged in some order. Magic squares are usually composed of 
words that may be read backward and forward and up and down, or of rows 
of numbers that add up to the same number. They may be written on paper, 
or engraved on metal or a stone, and are worm or carried in a variety of 
ways. Following are some examples: 


To use the following three squares: “Take the symbol in your hand, place 
it under your hat or cap, upon the top of your head, and you will be secretly 
answered by the spirit who will execute that which you wish,” 


To know all things past and future in general 


ZO--= 
OoQue= 
a“ < = < 
—-ax < OO 
=Z=--O2 


To know the secrets of war 


Awnmadcaw = 
wnat zZ—sw 
ame s~ qe Z=— = 
a<q*<yv <ZzZ< 
“Z<“ueaqueqm 
i i oe 
i A ae 
=Zuudcdcaawa 


For visions in the water 


Q220Z 


This square of Latin words is a well-known 
amulet against disease and the evil eye. It can 
also be written in a pentacle inscribed in a magic 
circle to control rebellious spirits. To extinguish 
a fire, throw into it a plate engraved with the 
square. No one has explained convincingly the 
significance of the words which mean, 
respectively: sower, plow, holds, words, wheels, 
although they vaguely suggest fertility and more 
vaguely, the conception, performance, and completion of a work of magic. 


n>Hid x 


The following squares are from The Sacred Magic of Abra-Melin the 
Mage. 


To transform men into asses 


: = 
. & 
M I 
1 Oo 
MN 
E 8 
i - 


“Ashtaroth and Asmodeus execute this. Let the being, whether man or 
animal, see the Symbol, and then touch them suddenly with it; when they 
will appear transformed; but this is only a kind of fascination. When you 
wish to make it cease, place the symbol upon the head, and strike it sharply 
with the wand, and the Spirit will make things resume their ordinary 
condition.”44 


To cause spirits to make all metals£2 


METALO 


Orr m 


To cause raint& 


SAGRIR 


w= wWQ > 


For obtaining the love of a maiden£Z 


SALOM 
R 
E 


Or > 
m>m 
7m VU 
>reO 


p 
MOLAS 


Following are numerical tables, seals, and symbols for the intelligences 
and spirits of the planets with instructions for composition and appropriate 


talismans. Generally, the table should be engraven on one side of a circular 
plate, and the other characters on the reverse. 


Each planet is associated with a particular magic square of numbers, 
which, engraved on one side of a circular plate, forms a talisman to obtain 
the magic virtue of the planet. Planetary powers are also symbolized by 
seals, which should be engraved on the reverse sides of such talismans, 
along with the magical characters of appropriate intelligences and spirits 
(good and bad spirits, respectively). A wise magician will make talismans 
for all seven planets, so that whenever he needs the help of any of them, a 
talisman is available.1® 


SUN © 


Table Seal 


632 323435 1 
# 11-27 28 & 30 
19 14 16 15 23 24 
18 20 22 21 17 13 
2529 10 93 26 2 
35 533 4 231 


Intelligence Spirit 


These figures should be engraven on a plate of gold. If the sun is 
fortunate, it will bring the maker fame and success in whatever he does and 


ability to do what he wishes. If unfortunate, the maker becomes insatiable, 
cruel, and likely to have a violent death. 


MOON C 


Table Seal 


37 78 29 70 21 621354 5 
6 38 79 30 71 22 63 14 46 
47 7 39 80 31 72 23 55 15 
1648 8 40 81 32 64 24 56 
57 17 49 9 41 73 33 65 25 
26581850 14274 34 66 
67 27 591051 24375 35 


36 69 19601152 34476 
77 28 69 20611253 445 


Spirit Spirit of Spirits 


ATS 


Intelligence of Intelligences 


Se 


When engraven on silver, with the moon fortunate, it makes him who 
bears it happy, cheerful, and pleasant, and brings him security, esteem, 
freedom from ill-will and enmity, health, and wealth. Engraven on lead with 
the moon unfortunate, the bearer will be unfortunate and unable to work. If 
it be buried, the spot where it lies will be unfortunate, and he who walks 
over it will suffer. 


MARS 0’ 
Table Seal 
3124 720 3 ey) 
41225 816 
if i o.to2 '9 
1018 114 22 
a0. 619 215 
Intelligence Spirit 


“_..with Mars fortunate, being engraven on an iron plate, or sword, 
makes a man potent in war and judgment and petitions, and terrible to his 
enemies and victorious over them; ... but if it be engraven with Mars being 
unfortunate, on a plate of red brass, it prevents or hinders buddings —it 
casts down the powerful from dignities, honours, and riches ... causes 
discord and hatred amongst men and beasts—drives away bees, pigs, and 
fish ... causes barrenness in men and women and strikes terror into enemies 
and compels them to submit.” 


MERCURY % 


Table 


85859 5 46263 1 

49 15 1452 53111056 O 
4] 23 22 44 48 1918 45 

32 34 38 29 25 35 39 28 Ox 
AO 26 27 37 36 30 31 33 O 
17 47 43 20 21 46 42 24 

955541213 515016 

64 2 36160 6 757 


Intelligence = Spirit 


Engraven on silver, tin or yellow brass, or written on virgin parchment 
with Mercury fortunate, it makes one fortunate and pleasing, brings wealth, 
and improves the memory and understanding. 


JUPITER 4 


Table Seal 


41415 1 
. ¢ O42 
51110 8 
166-2 3:13: 


Intelligence Spirit 


Engraven on a plate of silver, Jupiter fortunate, it brings wealth, love, 
favor, and peace, and reconciles enemies. Engrave it on coral to dissolve 


enchantments. 


SATURN h 


Table Seal 


owh 
— On Oo 
ON bo 


Intelligence Spirit 


S \ 


Engraven on a leaden plate, Saturn fortunate, brings safety, power, favor 
of princes and government, and aids childbirth. Saturn unfortunate, it brings 
strife and dishonor and stops buildings and new endeavors. 


VENUS Q 
Table Seal 
22 4716411035 4 Y 
§ 23 43 17 42 11 29 


30 624 49 18 36 10 + 
13 31 7 25 43 19 37 
38 1432 1 24 44 20 


2139 833 227 45 
401540 934 326 


Intelligence Spirit 


Intelligences 


Engraven on silver, Venus fortunate, obtains the love of women, causes 
fertility and harmony between the sexes, makes animals fertile, dissolves 
enchantment, brings joy and ends melancholy, and brings good luck to 
travelers. Opposite effects are wrought when engraven on brass with Venus 


unfortunate. 


1 Albertus Magnus, The Booke of Secretes, London, c. 1560. 

2 Felix Grendon, The Anglo-Saxon Charms, New York, 1909. 

3 Albertus Magnus, op. cit. 

4 Grendon, op. cit. 

5 Cyranus, The Magick of Kirani, King of Persia, London, 1685. 
6 Reginald Scot, The Discoverie of Witchcraft, London, 1655. 

7 Francis Barrell, The Magus, London, 1801. 

8 Grendon, op. cit. 

9 Barrett, op. cit. 


10 Ibid. 


12 Cyranus, op. cit. 


13 A. E. Waite, The Book of Black Magic and of Pacts. 


14 Abraham ben Simeon, The Book of the Sacred Magic of Abra-Melin the Mage, London, 1898. 


15 Ibid. 


16 Ibid. 
17 Ibid. 


18 All from Barrett, op. cit. 


MAGIC NUMBERS, WORDS, AND 
SYMBOLS 


Numbers, words, and symbols are grouped together because all are 
actually symbols and serve similar magical functions. The magician 
identifies them with forces of nature and of his own psyche, and through 
them is able to summon and control the forces. No magic text can 
adequately describe the associations and effects of particular symbols, 
because their meanings are dependent upon impulses deep within the 
human soul, which may be explained, but are not yet understood by the 
conscious mind. Perhaps symbols have something to do with the Why of 
creation, but whatever their meanings, magicians have experienced their 
power, a power that can be used for practical results, though not fully 
understood. 


“All things which were first made by the nature of things in its first age, 
seem to be formed by the proportion of numbers; for this was the principal 
pattern in the mind of the creator.” 


Number, repetition, or rhythm affects each of us every day, although few 
of us are aware of the numerical patterns of our lives, from the number of 
steps we walk up and down, to the numbers of our heartbeats. The magician 
attempts, so far as possible, to establish and control the rhythms of his 
operations. He repeats an incantation three times, takes seven steps toward 
the east, strikes ten blows with his rod, and so on. Certain numbers have 
always seemed especially significant. Seven has been the central magic 
number of many civilizations, of the Chaldeans and Babylonians, the Arabs, 
and throughout Europe. Three has also been extensively important. Nine 
and twenty-seven, four and twelve have often been revered. Thirteen, 
although generally considered unlucky and the number of members in a 
coven of witches, is also associated with the Christian Church, through the 


last supper, and the number of members in religious orders. Two is also 
often considered unlucky, since it may symbolize forces of evil. 


Following is a description of the magical attributes of the prime numbers, 
based primarily upon discussions in Barrett’s The Magus and the writings of 


Eliphas Levi. 


1. One stands for God, cause, creative power, purpose, and leadership. 
For one, Barrett gives the following scale of unity. 


In the 


Exemplary 


world 


Jod One divine essence, the fountain of all 
virtues and power, whose name is 
expressed with one most simple letter 


Intelligent the Soul, the One supreme intelligence, the first creature, 


world 
Celestial 
world 
Elemental 
world 


Lesser 
world 
Infernal 
world 


World the fountain of life 

the Sun One king of stars, the fountain of life 

the One subject and instrument of all virtues, 
Philosopher’s natural and supernatural 

Stone 


the Heart One first living and last dying 


Lucifer One prince of rebellion, of angels, and 
darkness 


2. Two is the number of light, friendship, courage, marriage, charity, 
memory, sympathy, and psychic sensitivity. Two symbolizes the feminine 
principle and has been almost universally considered the number of evil. It 
symbolizes the revolt of the infernal spirits from the Creator, and passive, 
unspiritualized matter. It is the number of confusion and conflict. 


3. Three is a number of perfection and creation. Although one stands for 
the creative force, three, representing the acting of the intelligent principle 
upon matter, stands for the act of creation. Three is the number of the totality 
of time (past, present, future) and of activity (beginning, middle, end). It is 
the number of the Trinity and corresponding groupings of three of other 
religions, and of the family. According to Levi, three is the “basis of magical 


doctrine, it supposes an intelligent cause, a cause which speaks, and an 
expressed principle.” 


4. Four is the number of foundation, solidity, earth, and labor. It is 
associated with the seasons, the elements, the directions, and the four 
qualities, cold, heat, dryness, moisture. 


5. Five is the number of justice, because it is in the middle of the first 
ten numbers. It also represents the physical union of male (3) to female (2) 
and the senses. 


6. Six is the most perfect number of perfection, because its factors all 
add or multiply to itself. It is the number of the completion of creation. It 
represents the productive union (by multiplication) of male and female. 


7. Seven stands for the dominion of soul (3) over body (or matter) (4). It 
is the number of knowledge, often secret, and of magic power, because alone 
among the first ten numbers it neither is produced nor generates by 
multiplication others of the ten. Seven is associated with the ages of man, 
the seven planets, and the days of the week. 


8. Eight is the number of justice, balance, and fullness, because by 
successive divisions by two it reduces to one. Because it follows seven, “the 
mystery of time” according to Barrett, it symbolized eternity and the end of 
the world. 


9. Nine is a number of perfection, because it is produced by three 
multiplied by three. It is the number of prophecy and initiation. It is, 
however, sometimes considered a number of incompleteness, because it falls 
short of ten, 


10. Ten is a number of completion, symbolizing the whole life. 
Especially in cabalistic systems it is considered the number of matter, or 
earth, or the world. 


11. Eleven is the number of revelation because it represents the 
intelligent principle, or God, communicating with the world (10). But it may 


be considered the number of sin and penance, because it falls short of 
twelve. 


12. Twelve is the number of perfection and grace, primarily through 
association with the Christ plus the eleven true disciples. 


Odd numbers traditionally stand for creation, the masculine principle, 
goodness, and the spiritual; and even numbers, for the object of creation, 
the feminine principle, evil and the material. 


Numbers are also associated with letters, and by extension with words. In 
the Hebrew alphabet, which has long been considered one of the most 
magically powerful systems, the letters are all associated with numbers (see 
the appendix table of relations between letters, numbers, Cabala, and Tarot 
symbols). One technique of cabalistic magic is forming words on the basis 
of desired numerical value. 


Magic words are generally considered names for the forces which the 
magician attempts to invoke. These words may be the names of gods and 
demons, or ordinary or incomprehensible words. In the remote beginnings 
of magic and religion, the name was considered a part of its bearer as surely 
as were the parts of his body, and names were kept secret in order that their 
bearers might not be harmed should an enemy gain knowledge of the name. 
Gods, too, jealously guarded their names, but a crafty magician might 
discover the name of a god and use it to command him. In the ceremonies 
of the Middle Ages, the magician commanded demons by means of their 
names, and though he prayed to God, there is a sense in which his 
possession of magical names for God also gave him control over the 
Creator. Modem magicians also use names of Greek, Roman, Egyptian, 
Babylonian, and Indian gods. In addition to the following magic words, 
others will be found in the chapters on spells and incantations and on 
ceremonial magic. 


Ten principal names of God (cabalistic, from Barrett, The Magus) 
1. Eheia 


2. Jod 


3. Tetragrammaton Elohim 

4. El 

5. Elohim Gibor 

6. Eloha 

7. Tetragrammaton Sabaoth, or Adonai Sabaoth 
8. Elohim Sabaoth 

9. Sadai, or Elhai 

10. Adonai Melech 


Tetragrammaton—Cabalistic term applied to the unpronounceable four- 
letter name for God, written YHVH. 


ABRACADABRA—Of ancient but uncertain origin. It may have been 
derived from the gnostic name Abraxas, or from the Chaldean words for 
Father, Spirit, and Word, or from the Hebrew for “God sends forth his 
lightning to scatter his enemies.” Written in the following triangular form 
and hung around the neck as an amulet, it prevents and cures many 
diseases, among them asthma and ague: 


>>rrrr>r?rr>r?>> 
2 
DPRwDWAWDAAA DA 
>>>>>>?>>?>> 

eee eee ee i oy @ | 
>Prrrr> 


INQ 


Among the alternate spellings are 
ABRAHADABRA and ABRACALAN. 


ABRAXAS—The supreme god of some Gnostic sects in the early years of 
the Christian era. He was a minor deity of several other sects. The name 
was engraved on many Gnostic talismans. 


AGLA—Formula used by Cabalists to invoke or banish demons and by 
other magicians as a magic word. It is formed from the initial letters of the 
Hebrew words meaning “God will be great forever.” 


SDPNQCN 
DPNQCRN 
PNQCN 

NQCN 

QQ CN 

C N 

N 


(eS) 


Latin formula for averting evil. It is taken 
from the initial letters of “Sospitante, Deo, 
Perdet, Nemo, Quin Capiet, Nemo.” 


BUD—Say this magic word to a scorpion to prevent him from biting you. 


IAIA—Cabalistic word taken from the initial letters of the Hebrew phrase 
meaning “God our God is one God.” 


SATOR—Word used in a well-known magic square (see amulets and 
talismans). To ease childbirth, write it on a wooden plate, then wash it with 
wine. 


Perhaps the most powerful magic words are those which the magician 
invents himself. In constructing them, he considers not only the pure sound, 
and the feelings evoked by the entire word, but the associations, numerical 
and symbolic, of each letter. The magician should use only those words into 
which he can concentrate his entire being. The English occultist Aleister 
Crowley suggested that “every wise magician will have constructed ... 
many such words, and he should have quintessentialised them all into one 
Word, which last word, once he has formed it, he should never utter 
consciously even in thought, until perhaps with it he gives up the ghost.” 


The remaining symbols and characters are purely visual. Nevertheless, 
they, too, help the magician summon the forces necessary for the 
accomplishment of his will. 


CIRCLE—The circle is a universal magic symbol, its shape suggesting 
infinity and endlessness. The magic circle (see ceremonial magic) is one of 
the magician’s most vital tools, and witches also dance and perform magic 
in a circle. It is wise to draw a circle, which has the power to banish evil 
spirits, around poisonous plants such as the mandrake before digging them 
up. Any object of circular shape is potentially magical. Rings especially are 
often used in charms and worn as amulets for luck or protection. 


CROSS—Crosses of various shapes also symbolize the protection of a 
deity, prevention of evil, and creation. A cross or X may also stand for 
either the breaking or the sealing of a spell. For the former purpose, the legs 


may be crossed or two objects laid across each other. A cross may mark the 
place designated, as the heart of a doll used in image magic. 


The Egyptian ankh, a tau, or T-shaped cross with a looped top, 
symbolizes creation and eternal life. It is worn for wisdom, peace, and good 
fortune. 


TRIANGLE—A triangle with one point upward represents good and the 
spirit and the element fire. The downward-pointing triangle stands for the 
physical, evil, and the element water. Equilateral triangles, with the points 
representing Father, Son, and Holy Spirit, are inscribed in magic circles to 
keep away evil spirits. The equilateral triangle also symbolizes wisdom. 


PENTACLE (or Pentagram)—Five-pointed star, used extensively in 
ceremonial magic, composed by extending the sides of a pentagon. With 
one point upward, the Pentacle represents the deity, the rule by mind of 
nature, and the microcosm. With two points upward, it represents Satan. 
Pentacles are inscribed in magic circles and drawn or embroidered upon the 
magician’s robes. They designate one suit of the Tarot deck. The five points 
of the pentacle represent the five senses. 


The term is sometimes applied to two triangles joined at their bases, such 
as this composed of one white triangle and one black described by Eliphas 
Levi: “...beneath the inverted apex of the black triangle, there is a fool 
crouching, painfully twisting his head, and looking with a grimace of terror 
at his own image reflected in the obscurity of the black triangle, while a 
man in knightly garments, in the vigour and maturity, with a steady glance 
and a strong yet pacific attitude of command, is balanced on the apex of the 
white triangle, within which are the letters of the divine tetragram.”4 


HEXAGRAM, or SOLOMON’S SEAL—Six-pointed star-formed from two 
interlaced equilateral triangles. The hexagram symbolizes the rule of spirit 
over the physical body to which it is united and the macrocosm. It may be 
inscribed in a magic circle or on the magician’s robe and is a talisman to 
repel evil spirits and misfortune. 


The following Solomon’s Seal for use in binding unwilling spirits in the 
magic ceremony is “made in the day and hour of Mercury upon parchment 


made of a kidskin, or virgin, or pure, clean, white paper; and the figures and 
letters wrote in pure gold; and it ought to be consecrated and sprinkled with 
holy water.”2 


The Seal of Solomon 


Symbols of planets: 


OC "3 °G © 28 


Sun Moon Mercury Mars Venus Jupiter Saturn 


Symbols of zodiac: 


re MUP COO. LLU SS 


Aquarius Pisces Aries Taurus Gemini Cancer 


umw=m it w 


Leo Virgo Libra Scorpio Sagittarius Capricorn 


Symbols of the four elements 


i, fir Ms 


Fire Air Earth Water 


Symbols of the three principles of nature 
in alchemy 


A’ oe 


Sulfur Mercury Salt 


Following are characters of evil spirits for use, accompanying 
incantations from the Fourth Book of Cornelius Agrippa.® 


cro ~ ie 
@ right line a crooked line a reflexed line 
a simple figure a penetrate broken 


R 7] = 


a right letter a retrograde letter an inverted letter 


y? 
C 


at hy ‘ === ED 
fire 


wind water a mass 


OX oD PF iS 


rain clay a flying creature 4 creeping thing 


a serpent an eye a hand a foot 
@ crown a crest horns a sceptir 
a sword a scourge 


From Reginald Scot: Discoverie of Witchcraft: 
On Saturday in the hour of ) write these characters on paper and lay it 
where you think there is hidden treasure. The paper will burn in the 
presence of treasure. 


bs GH Hs 
BO ast 08 


“Who so beareth this sign about him, all spirits shall do him homage.” 


Tarot 


Many magicians consider the twenty-two trumps of the Tarot deck 
among the most powerful magic symbols. Because of their number, they are 
associated with the letters of the Hebrew alphabet and the paths of the tree 
of life by which the Cabalist accomplishes the ascent toward God (see table 
on page 138). Following is a brief list of some attributes of the Tarot 
trumps, according to Eliphas Levi. 


1. 


Magician, or Juggler—Stands for Being; spirit; man; god; ... primitive 
substance. 


. High Priestess, or Female Pope—“The House of God and of Man, the 


sanctuary, the law, the gnosis, the Kabbalah, the occult, church, the 
driad, woman, the mother.”2 


. Empress—Symbolizes “the word, triad, plentitude, fruitfulness, nature, 


generation in the three worlds.” 


. Emperor—“The dominion or government among the Easterns, 


initiation, the Tetragram, the tetrad, the cubic stone, or the base 
thereof.” 


. Hierophant, or Pope—“Indication, demonstration, instruction, law, 


symbolism, philosophy, religion.” 


. Lovers—Union, combination. 
. Chariot—“Weapon, sword, cherub’s sword of fire ... triumph, royalty, 


priesthood.” 


. Strength—Force of nature and will. 
. Hermit—“Good, hatred of evil, morality, wisdom,” search for truth. 


10. 


Wheel of Fortune—“Cause, manifestation, praise, manly honor, 
phallus ... fecundity.” 


11. Justice—“Balance, attraction and repulsion, life, terror, promise, and 
menace.” 
12. Hanged Man—“Example, teaching, public lesson,” sacrifice. 
13. Death—“Domination and power, new birth, creation, and destruction,” 
transformation, 
14. Temperance—“Temperatures, seasons, motion, revolutions of life ...” 
15. Devil—“Occult science, magic, commerce, eloquence, mystery, moral 
strength.” 
16. Falling Tower, or Tower Struck by Lightning— “Deteriorations, 
subversions, changes, weaknesses,” the Tower of Babel. 
17. Star—“Outpouring of thought, moral influence of the idea of forms, 
immortality.” 
18. Moon—‘“Material forms, symbolism.” 
19. Sun—“The head, the Apex, the Prince of Heaven.” 
20. Last Judgment—“The vegetative, the generative power of the earth, 
eternal life.” 
21. Fool, or Unwise Man—“The sensitive flesh, eternal life” 
22. World—Microcosm and humanity. 
TAROT TABLE 
Number of 
Hebrew Numerical English Path in Tarot Trump and 
Letter Value Equivalent Cabala Number 
Aleph L A 1 O (no number) 
Fool, or Unwise 
Man* 
Beth 2 B Z 1 Magician, or 
Juggler 
Gimel 3 G 3 2 High Priestess, 
or Female Pope 
Daleth 4 D 4 3 Empress 
He 5s) H $s) 4 Emperor 


Vau 6 
Zayin 7 
Cheth 8 
Teth 9 
Yod 10 


Kaph 20, 500 


Lamed 30 
Mem 40, 600 
Nun 50, 700 


Samekh 60 
Ayin 70 

Pe 80, 800 
Sadhe 90, 900 
Qoph 100 
Resh 200 
Shin 300 
Tau 400 


V,W 


Z=zr 


HonNDA 


5 Hierophant, or 
Pope 

6 Lovers 

7 Chariot 

8 Strength 

9 Hermit 


10 Wheel of 
Fortune 


11 Justice 

12 Hanged Man 
13 Death 

14 Temperance 
15 Devil 

16 Falling Tower 
17 Star 

18 Moon 

19 Sun 

20 Last Judgment 
21 World 


*Often the Fool is assigned to path 21, and the other cards occupy the paths of their respective 


numbers. 


1 Francis Barrett, The Magus, London, 1801. 


2 Martin Frederick Blumler, A History of Amulets, Edinburgh, 1887. 


3 Blumler, op. cit. 


4 Alphonse Constant, The Mysteries of Magic, London, 1886. 


2 Barrett, op. cit. 


Sak. Waite, The Book of Black Magic and of Pacts. 


Z Constant, op. cit. 


Appendix 


MAGIC FUMES 


FUMIGATION is producing smoke or vapor for use in working magic. The 
terms fumigation and suffumigation are often used interchangeably in 
instructions for magic ceremonies. However, suffumigation usually means 
fumes that are caused to rise upward. The word perfume is sometimes used 
for the substances that may be fumigated or suffumigated. Fumes for 
ceremonial magic are usually chosen to harmonize with the planet ruling 
the spell to be performed. 


General Fumes 


Saturn: Odoriferous roots such as pepperwort root and the frankincense 
tree. 


Jupiter: All odoriferous fruits such as nutmegs, cloves. 


Mars: All odoriferous woods such as sanders, Cyprus, lignum balsam, 
lignum aloes, etc. 


Sun: Gums, such as frankincense, mastich, benjamin, storax, 
laudanum, ambergris, musk. 


Venus: Flowers, such as roses, violets, saffron. 


Mercury: Parings of wood or fruit, such as cinnamon, lignum cassia, mace, 
citron peel, bayberries, and odoriferous seeds. 


Moon: Leaves of all vegetables, leaf indum, leaf of myrtle, bay leaf. 


ARIES myrrh 
LIBRA galbanum 
TAURUS pepperwort 


SCORPIO oOppoponax 
GEMINI mastich 
SAGITARIUS lignum aloes 
CANCER camphor 
CAPRICORN benjamin 


LEO frankincense 
AQUARIUS © euphorbium 
VIRGO sanders 
PISCES red storax 
Suffumigations@ 
Sun: Equal quantities of saffron, ambergris, musk, lignum aloes, 


lignum balsam, fruit of the laurel, cloves, myrrh, and 
frankincense; bruise and mix together; add brain of an eagle or 
blood of a white cock; make into pills or troches. 

Moon: Mix together dried head of a frog, eyes of a bull, seed of white 
poppies, frankincense, camphor, and menstrous blood or blood 
of a goose. 

Saturn: Seed of black poppies, henbane, mandrake root, loadstone, 
myrrh; mix with brain of a cat and blood of a bat. 

Jupiter: Seed of ash, lignum aloes, gum benjamin, lapis lazuli, tops of 
peacock’s feathers, mixed with blood of a stork or swallow or 
brain of a hart. 

Mars: Euphorbium, bdellium, gum armoniac, roots of both hellebores, 
loadstone, a little sulfur, mixed with the brain of a hart, blood of 
aman, and blood of a black cat. 

Venus: Musk, ambergris, lignum aloes, red roses, red coral, mixed with 
Sparrow’s brains and pigeon’s blood. 

Mercury: Mastich, frankincense, cloves, cinquefoil, agate stone with brain 
of fox or weasel, and the blood of a magpie. 


Perfumes? 


Sunday: red sanders 


Monday: aloes 


Tuesday: pepper 
Wednesday: mastic 
Thursday: saffron 


Friday: 


pepperwort 


Saturday: sulfur 


Combine the following to make a very powerful perfume: pepperwort 
(Saturn); nutmeg (Jupiter); lignum aloes (Mars); mastich (Sun); saffron 
(Venus); cinnamon (Mercury); myrtle (Moon). 


Fume 


Fume 


Fume 


Fume 


Fume 


Fume 


Fume 


to bring spirits together: coriander, smallage, henbane, and 
hemlock.4 

to drive away evil spirits: calamint, peony, mint, and palma christi.2 
to raise spirits: spermaceti, lignum aloes, pepper-wort, musk, 
saffron, red storax, with blood of lapwing or bat.® 

to raise strange shapes: root of sagapen (reedy herb), juice of 
hemlock, henbane, root of tapsus barbatus (herb), red sanders and 
black poppy.2 

to bring apparitions and spirits: gall of man and eyes of black cat.2 
the bones of the upper part of a hart's throat to bring serpents 
together; burn the horn of the hart or peacock’s feathers to drive 
them away.2 

to foretell the future: linseed, fleabane seed, roots of violets, 
parsley.12 


1 Francis Barrett, The Magus, London, 1801. 


2 Ibid. 


3 Ibid. 


4 Ibid. 

5 Ibid. 

6 Ibid. 

Z Ibid. 

8 Reginald Scot, The Discoverie of Witchcraft, London, 1655. 
9 Barrett, op. cit. 


10 Henry Cornelius Agrippa von Nettesheim, The Philosophy of Natural Magic, Chicago, 1913. 


GOVERNMENT OF THE HOURS 


Each hour of night and day is under the magical rule of one of the seven 
planets. The magical day begins at sunrise and ends at sunset when the 
night begins, and the magical hours vary accordingly. When the day is long, 
the hours of the day will actually be longer than one hour each and the 
hours of the night shorter, 


A magical operation should be performed during the day and hour of the 
planet by which it is governed. Operations to attain wealth or understanding 
should be performed during the hours of the sun; of divination and secret 
ritual —the moon; for punishment, antagonism, vengeance, anger, poison, 
and matrimony—Mars; for attaining knowledge and eloquence—Mercury; 
for success, favor, honor, riches, fulfillment of wishes and matters of 
administration —Jupiter; for love and friendship—Venus; for death, ill-will, 
lies, and building—Saturn. According to Reginald Scot, the days and hours 
of Saturn, Mars, Mercury, and the moon are suitable for operations of 
necromancy and communion with spirits, for the discovery of theft and 
learning the truth; for invisibility and the attaining of grace, the days and 
hours of the sun, Jupiter, and Venus are good. 


The planets are in balance or opposition: Venus with Mars; Mercury with 
the sun and moon; Saturn with Jupiter. It is sometimes prudent to perform a 
magical operation on the day or hour of its opposing planetary force. For 
instance, an operation to attain wealth could be performed in the hour of 
Mercury or on Wednesday. 


Government of the Hours 


Hours of the day 


Sunday Monday Tuesday 


1 Sun Moon 

2 Venus Saturn 

3 Mercury Jupiter 
4 Moon Mars 

5 Saturn Sun 

6 Jupiter Venus 

7 Mars Mercury 
8 Sun Moon 

9 Venus Saturn 


10 Mercury Jupiter 
11 Moon’ Mars 
12 Saturn Sun 


Mars 
Sun 
Venus 
Mercury 
Moon 
Saturn 
Jupiter 
Mars 
Sun 
Venus 
Mercury 
Moon 


Wednesday Thursday Friday Saturday 


1 Mercury Jupiter Venus Saturn 
2 Moon Mars Mercury Jupiter 
3 Saturn Sun Moon Mars 
4 Jupiter Venus Saturn Sun 

5 Mars Mercury Jupiter Venus 
6 Sun Moon Mars Mercury 
7 Venus Saturn Sun Moon 
8 Mercury Jupiter Venus Saturn 
9 Moon Mars Mercury Jupiter 
10 Saturn Sun Moon Mars 
11 Jupiter Venus Saturn Sun 
12 Mars Mercury Jupiter Venus 


Hours of the night 


Sunday Monday 


1 Jupiter Venus 

2 Mars Mercury 
3 Sun Moon 

4 Venus’ Saturn 

9 Mercury Jupiter 
6 Moon Mars 

7 Saturn Sun 

8 Jupiter Venus 

9 Mars Mercury 
10 Sun Moon 
11 Venus Saturn 


12 Mercury Jupiter 


Tuesday 
Saturn 
Jupiter 
Mars 
Sun 
Venus 
Mercury 
Moon 
Saturn 
Jupiter 
Mars 
Sun 
Venus 


Wednesday Thursday Friday Saturday 


1 Sun Moon Mars Mercury 
2 Venus Saturn Sun Moon 

3 Mercury Jupiter Venus Saturn 

4 Moon Mars Mercury Jupiter 
9 Saturn Sun Moon Mars 

6 Jupiter Venus Saturn Sun 

7 Mars Mercury Jupiter Venus 

8 Sun Moon Mars Mercury 
9 Venus Saturn Sun Moon 
10 Mercury Jupiter Venus Saturn 
11 Moon Mars Mercury Jupiter 
12 Saturn Sun Moon Mars 


Each hour of the day and night, and each season, has a potent magic 
name. The magician speaks through magical names when referring to their 
objects in his spell, in order to give it added power. He also may write it in 


the magic circle. 


OMAN AWM BRWNY RP 


Magical Names of Hours 


Day Night 
Yain Beron 
Janor  Barot 
Nasnia Thami 
Salla Athar 
Sadedali Methon 
Thamur Rana 
Ourer Netos 
Thamic Tafrac 
Meron — Sassur 


10 Jayon Agle 
11 Abai Calerva 
12 Natalon Salam 


Magical Names of Seasons 


Season Magical Name Name of Earth in Season 


Spring Talvi Amadai 
Summer Casmaran Festativi 
Autumn Adarcel Rabinnara 
Winter Farias Geremiah 


Season Name of Sun Name of Moon Angels of Season 
Spring Abraym Agusita Carcasa 


Core 
Amatiel 
Commisoros 


Summer Athemay  Armatus Gargatel 
Tariel 
Gaviel 


Autumn Abragini Matasignais ‘Tarquam 
Guabarel 


Winter Commutof Affaterim Amabael 
Cetarari 


Above are names of seasons and hours containing the magic essence of 
the times to which they refer. The magic names of the hour and seasons in 
which a spell is performed may be spoken in incantations or written in the 
magic circle or on the magician’s garments. Also included are the seasonal 
names of sun, moon, and earth. (See chapter on magic numbers, words, and 
symbols.) 


HIERARCHY OF DEMONS 


Following is one of many versions of the hierarchy of demons, which 
was a Vital element of the medieval black magic handbooks. Although 
magicians of the past believed that these names actually designate infernal 
spirits, many modem occultists prefer to interpret them (and gods and 
angels) as names for forces of nature. Although there are hundreds of 
inferior demons, only the important spirits need be mastered. These will 
summon what lesser spirits they need to perform the magician’s will. 


Superior spirits: 
Lucifer—Emperor 
Beelzebuth—Prince 
Astaroth—Grand Duke 


(May be invoked by their characters written in blood, or engraven on 
emerald or ruby.) 


Subordinate spirits: Inferiors: 

Lucifuge Rofocale—Prime Minister— controls wealth Bael 
Agares 
Marbas 

Satanachia—Commander-in-Chief—can make women do his Pruslas 

will Aaman 
Barbatas 

Agaliarept—Commander—discoverer of secrets and the Buer 

highest mysteries Gusoyn 
Botis 


Fleurety—Lieutenant-Commander—works during the night Bathim 


Pursan 


Abigan 
Sarganatanas—Brigadier-Major—confers invisibility, opens Lonay 
locks, transports anyone or anything where he wishes Valefar 

Forau 


Nebiros—Field Marshall and Inspector General—power to = Ayperos 
work evil and to predict events; shows the secret powers of |= Nuberus 
the natural world Giasyabolus 


Magicians occasionally call upon elementals, the spirits that inhabit the 
elements. Sylphas are elementals that live in air; undines in water; 
salamanders in fire; and gnomes in earth. 


ANGELS OF THE WINDS AND 
ELEMENTS 


East Wind Michael 
West Wind Raphael 
North Wind — Gabriel 
South Wind Nariel, or Ariel 


Air Cherub 
Water ‘Tharsis 
Earth Ariel 


Fire Seraph 


Evil Spirit Ruling Directions 


Urieus King of the East 
Amaymon _ King of the South 
Paymon King of the West 


Egin King of the North 


GOVERNMENT OF THE PLANETS 


In the performance of a spell or ceremony, substances, colors, numbers, 
and symbols of the appropriate planet are used. In addition, named forces, 
ruled by the planets, known as angels, intelligences, and spirits, may be 
called upon. An intelligence generally represents a power for good, and a 
spirit that for evil. The angel can be called upon only for good and is 
associated with, rather than ruled by, the planet. 


Table A 


Places ruled 
Angel Intelligence Spirit (From Scot) 

Sun Raphael Nagiel Smeliel palaces, mountains, 
meadows, sunshine, 
groves, upper rooms 

Moon Gabriel Elimiel Lemanael wilderness, woods, 
rocks, forests, ships, 
highways 

Mars Chamael Graphael Modiniel battlefields, bake 
houses, glass 
houses, shambles, 
places of execution 

Mercury Michael Tiriel Cochabiel public places or cities 

Jupiter Zadykiel Sophiel Zadakiel theaters, schools, 
music houses, 
judgment seat 

Venus  Hamiel Hagiel Noguel fountains, meadows, 
gardens, seashores 

Saturn Zapkiel Agiel Sabathiel vaults, tombs, 


monasteries, empty 
houses, caves, dens, 


pits 
Numbers and 
Day of Names Answering 
Week Ruled to Numbers Figures Colors 
Sun Sunday 6 Vau hexagram gold, 
6 He yellow, 
36 Eloh scarlet 
111 Nachul 
666 Sonath 
Moon Monday 9 Hod enneagram white, 
81 Elim light 
369 Hasmodai, Spirit colors 
3321 
Schedbarschemoth 
Schartathan, Spirit 
of the Spirit 
3321 Marcha 
betharsisim hed 
benuah schehalim, 
Intelligence of the 
Intelligence 
Mars Tuesday 5 He pentagram red, 
25 violet, 
65 Adonai maroon, 
325 Graphiel rust, 
325 Borzabu crimson 
Mercury Wednesday 8 Asboga octagram _ light, 
64 Din pleasant 
64 Doni colors 
260 Tiniel, 
Intelligence 
2080 


Taphthartharath 


Jupiter 


Venus 


Saturn 


Sun 


Moon 


Mars 


Mercury 
Jupiter 


Thursday 


Friday 


Saturday 


Metals 
gold 


silver 


iron 


quicksilver 
tin 


136 Johphiel, 
Intelligence 
136 Hismael, Spirit 


7 Aha 
49 Hagiel, 


square 


blue, 
green, 
purple, 
gold 


heptagram green, 


Intelligence 
175 Kedemil, Spirit 
1225 Bne Seraphim, 


Intelligence 
3 Ab 
9 Hod 
15 Jah 
15 Hod 
45 Jehovah 
45 Agiel, Intelligence 
45 Zazel, Spirit 
Stones Herbs 
carbuncle, — sunflower 
ruby acacia, ash, 
marigold, 
celandine 
crystal nightshade, 
lotus, white 
poppy, 
adder's 
tongue 
diamond hellebore, 
pepper 
agate cinquefoil 
sapphire betony, 


agrimony, 


triangle 


other 
light 
colors 


black, 
leaden, 
brown 


Animals Birds 


lion 


Cat, 
dog, 
field- 
mouse 


wolf 


ape 
hart 


swan 


owl 


vulture 


stork 
eagle 


Venus 


Saturn 


Sun 
Moon 
Mars 
Mercury 
Jupiter 
Venus 
Saturn 


asparagus, 
cedar 
copper, emerald vervain, goat 
brass beans, myrtle 
lead onyx, mandrake, mole 
lodestone angelica, 
henbane, 
asofoetida 


Holes of the Head Members of the Body 


right eye heart 

left eye left foot 
right nostril right hand 
mouth left hand 
left ear head 

left nostril privy members 


right ear right foot 


dove 


lapwing 


Bibliography 


Adams, W. H. Davenport. Witch, Warlock, and Magician. New York, 1889. 

Ady, Thomas. A Candle in the Dark. London, 1656. 

Albertus Magnus. The Booke of Secretes. London, c. 1560. 

Albertus Magnus. Egyptian Secrets. U.S.A., N.p., n.d. 
(The thirteenth-century cleric Albertus Magnus, like many other reputed 
magicians, has been credited with the writing of numerous works of 
magic. He should not be held responsible for their contents.) 

Barrett, Francis. The Magus. London, 1801. 

Baxter, Richard. The Certainty of the Worlds of Spirits. London, 1691. 

Ben Simeon, Abraham. The Book of the Sacred Magic of Abra-Melin the 
Mage. Trans. S. L. MacGregor-Mathers. London, 1898. 

Blavatsky, H. P. Isis Unveiled. New York, 1893. 

Blunder, Martin Frederick. A History of Amulets. Trans. S. H. Gent. 
Edinburgh, 1887. 

Boulton, Richard. A Compleat History of Magick, Sorcery, and Witchcraft. 
London, 1715. 

Brand, John. Popular Antiquities of Great Britain. 2 Vols. London, 1905. 

Briggs, K. M. Pale Hecate's Team. London, 1962. 

Bromhall, Thomas. A Treatise of Specters. London, 1658. 

Brook, Richard. A New Family Herbal. London, 1871. 

Budge, E. A. Egyptian Magic. London, 1899. 

Burton, Robert. Anatomy of Melancholy. London, 1932. 

Butler, E. M. Ritual Magic. Cambridge, England, 1949. 

Cassecanarie, Myal Djumboh. Obeah Simplified. Port-of-Spain, Trinidad, 
1895. 

Cavendish, Richard. The Black Arts. New York, 1967. 

Constant, Alphonse. The Mysteries of Magic. Ed. A. E. Waite. London, 
1886. 


Crowley, Aleister. Magic in Theory and Practice. New York, 1960. 

Culpepper, Nicholas. The English Physician. London, 1826. 

Cyranus. The Magick of Kirani, King of Persia. London, 1685. 

Daiches, Samuel. Babylonian Oil Magic. London, 1913. 

Dalyell, John. The Darker Superstitions of Scotland. Edinburgh, 1834. 

Daraul, Arkon. Witches and Sorcerers. New York, 1962. 

Defoe, Daniel. Compleat System of Magic. London, 1729. 

Forsyth, J. S. Demonologia. London, 1827. 

Fortune, Dion. Applied Magic. London, 1962. 

Fortune, Dion. The Training and Work of an Initiate. London, 1955. 

Frazer, James. The Golden Bough. Vol. I. London, 1890. 

Freud, Sigmund, Totem and Taboo. New York, 1952. 

Gardner, Gerald. Witchcraft Today. London, 1954. 

Glanvill, Joseph. Saducismus Triumphatus. London, 1681. 

Godwin, Williams. Lives of the Necromancers. London, 1834. 

Graves, Robert. The White Goddess. New York, 1948. 

Grendon, Felix. The Anglo-Saxon Charms. New York, 1909. 

Hartman, Franz. Magic, White and Black. New York, 1901. 

Hohman, John. The Long Lost Friend. N.p., n.d. 

Hole, Christina. A Mirror of Witchcraft. London, 1957. 

Hughes, Pennethorne. Witchcraft. London, 1952. 

Hurston, Zora. Voodoo Gods. London, 1939. 

Iamblichus of Chalcis. Theurgia; or the Egyptian Mysteries. London, 1911. 

James I, King of England. Daemonologie. Edinburgh, 1597. 

Jennings, Hargrave. The Rosicrusians. New York, 1879. 

Kenyon, Theda. Witches Still Live. New York, 1929. 

Kunz, George Frederick. The Magic of Jewels and Charms. Philadelphia, 
1915. 

Lea, Henry C, Materials Toward a History of Witchcraft. 3 Vols. New York, 
1957. 

Leland, Charles Godfrey. Etruscan Roman Remains in Popular Tradition. 
New York, 1892. 

Leland, Charles Godfrey. Gypsy Sorcery and Fortune Telling. London, 
1891. 


Lenormant, Francois. Chaldean Magic. London, 1877. 

Leyel, Mrs. C. F. The Magic of Herbs. New York, 1926. 

Malchus, Marius. The Secret Grimoire of Turuel. London, 1960. 

Maple, Eric. The Dark World of Witches. New York, 1962. 

Mead, G. R. S. Fragments of a Faith Forgotten. London, 1906. 

Michaelis, Sebastian. A Discourse of Spirits. London, 1613. 

Michelet, Jules. Satanism and Witchcraft. Trans. A. R. Allinson. New York, 
1939. 

Moir, George. Magic and Witchcraft. London, 1852. 

Montgomery, James A, Aramaic Incantation Texts from Nippur. 
Philadelphia, 1913. 

Murray, Margaret Alice. The Witch-Cult in Europe. Oxford, 1962. 

Newes from Scotland. Edinburgh, 1591. 

Paracelsus. Selected Writings. Ed. Jolande Jacobi. Trans. Norman 
Guterman. New York, 1951. 

Parrinder, Geoffrey. Witchcraft. New York, 1958. 

Pavitt, Kate, and Thomas, William. The Book of Talismans, Amulets, and 
Zodiacal Gems. London, 1914. 

Pazig, Christianus. A Treatise of Magic Incantations. Edinburgh, 1886. 

Pistis Sophia. Ed. G. R. S. Mead. London, 1896. 

Regardie, Israel. The Golden Dawn. Chicago, 1937. 

Robbins, Russell Hope. Encyclopedia of Witchcraft and Demonology. New 
York, 1959. 

Robert, Fletcher. “The Witches Pharmacopeia,” Bulletin of the Johns 
Hopkins Hospital. August, 1896. 

Rose, Elliot. A Razor for a Goat. Toronto, 1962. 

Sacred Books of the East. Vol. 42. Oxford, 1897. 

Scot, Reginald. The Discoverie of Witchcraft. London, 1655. 

Seabrook, William. Witchcraft, Its Power in the World Today. New York, 
1940. 

Sergeant, Philip W. Witches and Warlocks. London, 1936. 

Seymour, John D. Irish Witchcraft and Demonology. Baltimore, 1913. 

Sinclair, George. Satan's Invisible World Discovered. Edinburgh, 1871. 

Spence, Lewis. An Encyclopedia of Occultism. New York, 1920. 

Summers, Montague. The Geography of Witchcraft. New York, 1958. 


The Book of the Dead. Trans. E. A. W. Budge, London, 1898. 

Thompson, R. Campbell. Semitic Magic. London, 1908. 

Von Nettesheim, Henry Cornelius Agrippa. The Philosophy of Natural 
Magic. Chicago, 1913. 

Waite, Arthur Edward. The Book of Black Magic and of Pacts. London, 
1898. 

Waite, Arthur Edward. The Holy Kabbalah. New Hyde Park, New York, 
1960. 

Waite, Arthur Edward, The Pictorial Key to the Tarot. New Hyde Park, 
New York, 1959. 

Wallace, C. H. Witchcraft in the World Today. New York, 1967. 

Walton, A. H. Love Recipes Old and New. Great Britain, 1956. 

Wier, Johann. De Praestigiis Daemonum. N.p., 1563. 

Wilde, Jane F. Ancient Cures, Charms, and Usages of Ireland. London, 
1890. 

Wood, J. Maxwell. Witchcraft and Superstitious Record in the Southwestern 
District of Scotland. Dumfries, Scotland, 1911. 

Wright, Harry B. Witness to Witchcraft. New York, 1957. 

Wright, Thomas. Narratives of Sorcery and Magic. New York, 1852. 


® 


SIGNET Titles of Related Interest 


e THE UNEXPLAINED by Allen Spraggett. A comprehensive 
account of the most recent development in parapsychology. 
Includes interviews with such well known authorities as Jeanne 
Dixon and Nandor Fodor. 


(#Q3503—95¢) 


e THE PSYCHIC WORLD AROUND US by Long John Nebel 
with Sanford Teller. Long John Nebel, America’s leading 
nighttime radio personality, recounts his experiences with 
psychic phenomena. 


(#Q4201—95¢) 


¢ UNKNOWN BUT KNOWN: My Adventure Into the 
Meditative Dimensions by Arthur Ford. Arthur Ford, a 
psychic researcher and pioneer thinker explains his philosophy 
and gives us ways in which we can communicate with the other 
world. 


(#T4067—75¢) 


¢ THE HAUNTED MIND by Nandor Fodor. A former Director of 
the International Institute for Physical Research in London and 
a practicing psychoanalyst, calls on numerous case histories to 
report the facts behind the “other world,” phenomena of 
levitation, telepathy, psychokinesis and astral travel. 


(#T3468—75¢) 


MANY MANSIONS by Gina Cerminara. The most convincing 
proof of reincarnation and ESP ever gathered in one volume. A 
trained psychologist’s examination of the files and case 
histories of Edgar Cayce, the greatest psychic of our time. 


(#Q3307—95¢) 


INTIMATE CASEBOOK OF A HYPNOTIST by Arthur Ellen 
with Dean Jennings. One of America's leading hypnotists who 
has treated some 150,000 subjects, including Tony Curtis, 
Maury Wills, George Shearing, Vic Damone and many of 
lesser fame, presents here a compelling account of hypnotism 
as a healing art 


(#P3725—60¢) 


THE ENIGMA OF OUT-OF-BODY TRAVEL by Susy Smith. 
The first comprehensive volume on a supernatural 
phenomenon that has baffled scientists for centuries, 
presenting extraordinary case histories of people who have 
actually travelled outside their bodies. 


(#P3452—60¢) 


THE HAUNTED PEOPLE by Hereward Carrington and 
Nandor Fodor. Poltergeist phenomena which consist of 
supernatural noises, mysterious movements of objects and the 
like are documented with hundreds of authenticated instances 
by two of the most eminent authorities in the field of physical 
research. 


(#T3726—75¢) 


TRUE EXPERIENCES WITH GHOSTS edited by Martin 
Ebon. In this anthology, fourteen instances of baffling 
supernatural adventures are examined in the light of the new 
science of parapsychology. 


(#P3421—60¢) 


eee 


THE NEW AMERICAN LIBRARY, INC., P. 0. Box 2310, Grand Central Station, New 
York, New York 10017 


Please send me the SIGNET BOOKS | have checked above. | am enclosing 

$ (check or money order—no currency or C.O.D.’s). Please include the 
list price plus 10¢ a copy to cover mailing costs. (New York City residents add 6% Sales 
Tax. Other New York State residents add 3% plus any local sales or use taxes.) 


Name 
Address 
City State Zip Code 


Allow at least 3 weeks for delivery 


